Jul 12, 2016
Ghostbusters (1984)
youtube.com/watch?v=8PS7CgXHxps
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/752905779317919745
redlettermedia.com/ghostbusters-1984-review

and this episode of review who are you
gonna call that's right the ghostbusters
today we're talking about the
ghostbusters the 1984 comedy film
starring Bill Murray dead Aykroyd he'll
ramus into Ernie Hudson rich what you're
a youtuber but you're not an asshole
youtuber oh fuck I got confused yeah I
saw a red curtain I thought we were that
one prick what's his name uh there's so
many pricks I can't remember his fucking
well rich we're here today to talk about
the 1984 flop film ghostbusters
oh wait wait I think it's thinking about
Ghostbusters 2016 the flop film
Ghostbuster oh my goodness were already
into it well I suppose we should talk
about the elephant in the room before we
discuss ghostbusters I was talking about
Melissa McCarthy cuz she's fat
see there's too many easy jokes we could
make no seriously rich yeah if we're
going to talk about the new Ghostbusters
film I brought along the barf bag for
you okay so you suddenly feel the urge
to throw up oh thank you Mike
thank you Mike are we being fair are we
being fair to ghostbusters 2016 here's
the thing at this point we have not seen
the new Ghostbusters film we're doing
our review episode on I would say
probably both of our one of our favorite
films of all time it's will say that
Ghostbusters is a film that has molded
our lives because look where we are now
for many many years the rumors were
swirling of a Ghostbusters three and we
we speculated many times on what this
would be and then we talked about how
horrible it was going to be we talked
about yes and then that's kind of one of
the things I want to discuss where
there's the problem with remaking
Ghostbusters Ghostbusters isn't just a
science fiction film about people who
capture ghosts with laser beam
it's very specifically three great
performances by three great comedians
and also Ernie Hudson mm-hmm but I mean
you can't you can't just recreate that
chemistry no it's it's a happy accident
on the film because there there are
three or four or maybe even five
brilliant minds at work who I think all
had kind of different idea of how the
film would turn out especially dan
Aykroyd mainly speaking about Dan
Aykroyd and I have a feeling that Bill
Murray had no idea what was going on and
he's just being sarcastic you can tell
by certain interviews that he does he's
just like I don't know whatever we're
not here just to get a couple of yachts
hahaha no he's not worried about and
we're not here just to stay off the
street we're here to do something very
very important and so you have all these
different different wonderful talents
that have no idea what kind of movie
they're making the only one who really
did I think was Ivan Reitman
maybe Harold Ramis but it's this
wonderful wonderful blend of comedy and
science because Dan Aykroyd really takes
his stuff seriously
yes and you're right it's it's about the
performances and had I seen ghostbusters
2016 trailer with who I don't know who
do we joke that we set up Seth Rogen
were joking about being in it at some
point like Jack black years ago ten
years ago Michael Michael sirrah you
know whoever whoever current comedians
are
god forbid James Franco it could have
very easily been a Judd Apatow movie who
knows and if it had just as much goofy
nonsense that's in this Ghostbusters
2016 I still would have had the same
reaction actually to me having an
all-female cast is one of the biggest
attributes to the movie because you're
not women women comedians will have a
different perspective a different way of
doing the performances then like you
can't replace Bill Murray dan Aykroyd
and Hale Ramos I just can't
so having male counterparts replace them
or try to be as funny as them I think
would have been more disastrous but
about the only thing you can do is a
gimmick that's girls it's a gimmick yeah
I guess so I think they were doing that
to kind of curtail some of the
criticisms and come if you put a Seth
Rogen in there I don't have anything
against Seth Rogen I'm just saying those
actors in ghostbusters were very
specific like you said and it was
perfect my parents left me that house I
was born there you're not gonna lose the
house everybody has three mortgages
nowadays but at 19 percent you didn't
even bargain with the guy great for your
information the interest rate alone for
the first five years comes to $95,000
well I think I think we we speculated
that there would be a flying
Ghostbusters car Ghostbusters three I
speculated because you have the top you
have the Stay Puft Marshmallow Man and
then you have like the the Statue of
Liberty I speculated that they were
going to have to turn like the Empire
State Building into a giant ghost trap
like like Dan Aykroyd was going to have
some dialogue the architects of this
building we're really the earliest
ghostbusters and this was designed to
stop a ghost invasion in Manhattan and
like the the Empire State Building was
going to suck in some kind of giant
ghost that was like larger than the city
yes and there could have been a
completely different way that the new
Ghostbusters reboot went which is I was
I was watching ghostbusters as well I
did do some research to see although I
was watching it with all the little
behind the scenes documentary stuff and
I was thinking like proton packs are an
equivalent to the lightsaber where
they're awesome
but only there only awesome with when
used sparingly and and according to the
story because they don't really fire the
proton packs that much in the goes to
the first Ghostbusters movie am i right
yep
so we very well could have had a big
dumb stupid kind of michaelbay esque
movie where people are firing proton
packs all over the place and it got big
and epic you know yeah and dumb that
very well could have happened
it seems that Paul fyg Paul Feig they
seem to have gone to the comedy route
because Paul Feig did bridesmaids um and
other films he did lots of episodes of
The Office and he is a comedy guy so the
only real problem with Ghostbusters 2016
is that the comedy looks very lowbrow
that's stuff one everywhere by the way
in every crack very hard to wash off
when of course in the original
Ghostbusters it's it's the best comedy
of her captured in a motion picture
which is dry and sarcastic which is why
the film is a work of art I think you
once described Ghostbusters is a vehicle
for Bill Murray to say witty things oh
that's low it is yeah yeah how does it
go the story and the ghosts and the
everything's a backdrop and it's it's
it's also a vehicle for Dan Aykroyd's
crazy they had to tone that crazy dumb
so much yeah they had some behind the
scenes stuff where they're like like
asking all the main guys you know what
what did to show your kids Ghostbusters
and eyebright was like oh I showed my
kids you know they think it's fun it's
daddy it made a great movie and then dan
Aykroyd like yeah of course I showed my
kids and they asked me of ghosts in the
movie are real and I had to tell them
the truth that yes it's all real they've
asked me you know do I believe in ghosts
and are ghosts real and I I can't lie to
them and I have to tell them that I do
believe and I do believe they're real I
guess what's funny is they're wide-eyed
response they're expecting me to say
well no it's just a movie but I'm not
going to say that to them because I
respect their intelligence and their
perception is as little beings and you
know but but that's his that's his
passion it's his passion it's like
almost his religion and you know what
it's fine it's fine he really believes
on and you know
as you know I'm I am a nut for
paranormal all things paranormal I can't
say whether or not I believe in ghosts
100% but I find all that stuff
fascinating different dimensions
you know string theory good paranormal
ghosts time echoes however the the
Mandela effect have you heard about this
I've heard about that yeah just remember
things and then they think reality has
changed around them rather than they
just forgot something
oh right yeah yeah um so I find all that
stuff interesting so it's it's it's
great that that Dan Aykroyd has brought
that angle to the to the ghostbusters
where he believes that proton packs are
real and that you really can catch
ghosts because it adds that element that
perfect element of believability you
know and the movie starts off very very
believable and it kind of turns into
wonderful chaos in at the end it builds
up to the point where you can believe a
giant marshmallow man is walking down
the streets
there's something you don't see every
day and a dimensional rift is opened
with the Super God windows are from from
a couple of guys in a laboratory to that
you go from the the simple books
floating across in the library to the
cities blowing up mm-hmm
and marshmallow fluff is raining down
from the skies yes yes close lock the
system set your entry grid mr. Nyes your
feel and light is green rap is plain the
Ghostbusters are anti horror and other
movies with like a supernatural element
you combat the supernatural with the
supernatural like once you know the Evil
Dead start appearing you have to read
from the Necronomicon and have the exact
phrasing or you you need to find the
mystic dagger to stop the ghost and
perform the ritual the Ghostbusters take
that and turn it out it's heads like
we're gonna use our own damn science to
fight these things and I that that makes
the the concept interesting to me they
don't fight on the monsters terms and in
a way they're their little superheroes
they have this amazing technology that
no one no one else has and it's a joke
like the whole movies I see that's where
that's where I have this feeling like it
was a kind of a happy accident because I
think the gag was that there there
schlubby blue-collar exterminators that
exterminate ghosts and that in itself is
kind of like like a comedy concept
that's why you know Bill Murray's always
like making all these jokes the whole
time and it's essentially a comedy but
it has that that underpinning that
underlayer of of the real the reality to
it and that's why I always like the fact
that the threat and I've never really
like Slimer
I've always liked everything else in the
movie the fact that the threat is
actually like this real dangerous
interdimensional threat well the tone is
yeah the tone is great because they are
the only thing that that's really silly
in the movie the Ghostbuster Ghostbuster
oh yeah yeah
everyone else plays it as played
straight except for maybe Rick Moranis
but well yeah he's uh yeah he's the
threat is real there's that element of
it's it's a mixture to between ghosts as
we know them which are dead people and
some kind of bizarre supernatural
occurrence because really they are not
fighting a ghost yeah at the end of
ghostbusters are trying to seal an
interdimensional portal well it's kind
of its kind of Lovecraftian Cthulhu the
the other dimensional gods who will come
someday to destroy us all yeah I mean
the first ghost they see though is the
ghost of presumably a dead librarian
yeah from the 1800s and then they kind
of like the only asset the only other
human ghost I can recall in the
Ghostbuster series is the Central Park
jogger yeah yeah another than that
they're all like that little monsters
couldn't could Schlemmer have been a
human the ghosts have to look you let
the ghost of George Lucas oh wait sorry
the the the so-and-so brothers who died
in the electric chair who become big fat
cartoon ghosts for no reason at all
wells also the scariest ghost and
Ghostbusters the cab driver the zombie
cab driver but he wasn't really ghosts
as much as he was a zombie it was just a
skeleton it was an undead skeleton it
wasn't glowing or transparent the ghost
came into the tailpipe of the cab and I
think that turned into the dáil we need
to Skype dan Aykroyd right away that's
the thing it's like it's like all the
rules are off the window it's not like
we're you know we're going to hunt this
or that who cares
it should we call paranormal Buster's
it's it's misleading title but the logo
is is perfect it's a ghost which is
fantastical and paranormal and and and
mythical mixed with a very mundane
symbol of no smoking know what I mean
because that that in the 80s that those
are those are probably everywhere
everywhere that the no smoking logo yeah
don't do this you know no crossing the
street the no sign I think it has an
official name but I can't recall it
right now but that that's the
Ghostbusters and then the ghost is the
ghosts it's perfect it's perfect
no ghost no ghost that's all you need
and for some reason I don't know seeing
that logo on the new movie just makes me
want to throw up
it's not as bad as the Ghostbusters 2
logo where he's just doing the peace
thing what I think we're going to
refrain from talking about yeah
Ghostbusters - yeah I did see the
Ghostbusters 2 logo in person because
I'll bring up this wonderful wonderful
moment in my life
Jay and I went on a video production
shoot to New York City many years ago 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 12 15 years ago I'm not
even sure and it was in Central Park
who's in Central Park West and and we
walked around because we had set up our
gear and we had a couple hours before
the shoot started and and then we were
like it's not the building from
ghostbusters isn't that Louis Tully's
apartment building and sure enough it
was in fact we made a video about it but
we saw the Lewis Tully's apartment
building and literally across the street
in Central Park is there was the
restaurant called Tavern on the Green
which is where he problems on the glass
and we started finding all these
locations and then we said we're going
to we got to go to the V location and
you know what I'm talking about a
library out oh we just go to the New
York Public Library - but we we took a
cab to the ghostbusters firehouse and
then there it was and and you know every
every five minutes or every minute there
was you know people coming up taking
pictures yeah it was like a constant
stream very very mild but constant then
then when we were there they
put up the door the firehouse door and
they have inside there on the wall they
have the sign from ghostbusters 2 on the
wall do they do anything there's just a
tourist official a firehouse yeah the
the I think we talked about this in our
Ghostbusters 2 commentary which is
available on Bandcamp but the exteriors
were shot in New York and then the
interiors were shot in a firehouse in LA
yeah so yeah when it opens up it doesn't
look like the inside of it they they
didn't build a recreation of the
exterior of the hotel for when the
street gets always up that that is also
amazing that's impressive
that's impressive good seamless I never
had any idea that was a set yeah yeah
well I had to crush up the street but
yeah they built the exterior that I
can't believe someone didn't just say
maybe we don't need the street to break
up maybe they just walk inside I can't
believe like a bean counter didn't say
that why do we have to know this
multi-million dollar said because it was
the 80s man and they knew how to make
movies back then now would be a computer
graphic effect that looks terrible
you like that one with that came from oh
my god for cocaine
that's right rich smokey yeah we got it
yes that's gonna blow up it's maybe a
hat right you know I don't know I guess
he sound like the guy that runs the
cartoon Factory in the Simpsons
at Harold Ramis that's a
bringing up it's very sad I mean it
really takes the punch out of this new
movie but it also confirms the fact that
I'm okay with them not making one with
the original cast I mean you have to be
at this point obviously because Harold
Ramis has died but I always thought a
third Ghostbusters movie with the
original cast would have still been
wonderful and they're all like we're too
old or you know and that's one of my
favorite lines from the second one is
sucking the guts boys were the
Ghostbusters it's because Harold Ramis
was was very overweight the end of his
life and you know Bill Murray looks like
the Crypt Keeper from sales of the Crypt
you know and they all look terrible
except for Ernie Hudson who somehow
looks exactly the same as he did 1984 as
they say black don't crack but I would
have loved to see all of them looking
horribly old and fat and schlubby trying
to be ghostbusters again and all the
humor you can mine from that yeah
Ghostbusters only needs a third film to
redeem itself from the second where you
just forget about the second why not
what happened have happened rich if we
said oh my god that Temple of Doom movie
and we're done we wouldn't have a last
verse eight because they said that oh my
god this this actually Temple of Doom
though that's one of my favorites but
it's the least why are we having this
argument because it's at least it's the
least popular amongst all them because
it was so dark and horrible and racist
and miserable look and Ghostbusters to
Bill Murray wanted to be doing something
else
mhm and and the novelty of the ghost
catching idea was was done like like
like part of the Ghostbusters is that
that idea is so novel like catching
ghosts with with science and the traps
and the equipment that was all that was
all that's need and then Ghostbusters 2
came out what was it like 5 5 years
later it was it was too long to be fresh
like maybe if Ghostbusters 2 came out
like 2
years later would have been different
but five years later it wasn't a fresh
yeah I know and and and that's why
that's why in that movie like the first
half when it's just those characters and
their chemistry and they're in different
situations why that first half of that
movie is so interesting and the minute
they get their proton packs back
everything just feels routine it's like
oh we're the girls where they're gonna
ship goes yeah I know it became less
special
mmm they say made so many missteps where
they could have made a third one in like
the mid-90s that kind of fixed
everything but who knows who knows
redeemed it's a little it's too late
it's too late now
and Annie Potts she was right all along
when she said usually very psychic about
these things I believe you're gonna die
oh I'm not making a joke well as course
she was right we're all gonna die like
I'm very psychic about these things I
think you're gonna die it gives me the
willies now when she says that line on
the TV screen rich and you know I'm not
making a joke I Harold Ramos was
wonderful and it's like you know it's
like losing 101 John Lennon got shot you
know there can never be a Beatles
reunion then has the Ghostbusters
formula worked outside of Ghostbusters
that's a very good question the answer's
no I'm trying to think of some of the
most uh what was the one with the David
Duchovny I think it was also Ivan right
it wasn't that evolution or something
like that oh yeah oh geez that movie
wasn't that basically made to be another
ghost
it's like those buses but like a whacky
supernatural I think the the I think the
big key is restraint it's having that
restraint to hold back until the very
ending of the film which is what
Ghostbusters did it's a perfect movie
perfectly set up perfectly acted
executed everything like like like
gremlins like gremlins yeah which came
out the same year let's assume what's a
week I think really I could be wrong
with a man
a year that works today before this was
don't piss off the ghost really it's no
different to me than the Robocop or
Total Recall remakes you're taking a
film that even though it's 30 years old
still works exceedingly well and and
you're trying to recreate something you
can't recreate with with that chemistry
that those actors had maybe they're not
trying to recreate it maybe they have
the licensing for the name and are
slapping a film together to make a whole
bunch of money real fast have you
considered that option but Mike they're
women so feminism okay I don't know if
it was a race thing or a lady thing but
I'm mad as hell and it's good because
they're women
women can do anything a man can do
especially a fictional job catching
ghosts
this can't be a cynical cash grab
because they're female all right you're
right that invalidates your argument
well cross the street excuse me a gun
you said crossing the streams was bad
Ross the streams
you're gonna endanger us you're gonna
injure our client the nice lady who paid
us in advance before she became a dog is
don't cross the streams the just kind of
the lamest setup for the ending they
could have done just one line earlier in
the film oh yeah we shouldn't cross the
streams then at the end of film we need
to cross the streams well he got he got
explained the particle physics
involvement of it all it was was yes yes
on a surface level yes story
component-wise this is a big dangerous
thing we should do yeah let's do it
together as a team we're going to take
the risk together we're yeah yeah I was
felt fairly weak to me it isn't it is
the weakest part of the movie and I've
always hated the line she's a dog okay
so she's a dog
I've always thought that that ruined the
emotional intensity of watching scoring
Weaver transform into a monster no Bill
Murray has been been fawning after the
whole film Eddie it's like I how about I
say this I just picture Bill Murray on
the signal to say this and she's a dog
and then it's like oh no that's the only
line in the whole film that I don't like
I don't know that whole romance always
struck me as creepy because I had never
got the feeling that Peter Venkman
wanted to do anything other than just
sleep with her and move on but he had
his chance when she was possessed she
said I want you inside me and he's like
he goes I do it no it's his subconscious
talked again and then he's like it seems
like there's already a couple people in
there you're talking about when when
when he showed up to go on the date with
her yes yeah the date the date that he
brought 350 cc's of Thorazine on you
know originally they wanted the part of
Peter Venkman to be played by Bill Cosby
but in all fairness we must do our best
to reserve judgment on Ghostbusters 2016
until we see it yeah it might be it
might be fun the only the only real
problem is that there is almost 0%
chance it's going to be better than the
original making the whole endeavor
pointless that's when was if they make a
bunch of cash and it's also not
pointless if it makes me laugh the whole
time look if it's a funny movie
I love Ghostbuster tech I love the
proton packs
I love the traps out of the firehouse I
love Ghostbusters car I love all that
that weird but somewhat realistic
technology that exists in the
Ghostbusters universe and I love those
three characters I will be happy with
this movie if it's just funny because I
know that the technology in it is going
to be over-the-top it's going to be
stupid it's not going to feel believable
because I've already seen scenes where
they're like well
little playing around with stuff I don't
believe that Melissa McCarthy can make a
proton pack I believe that you got
Spangler clip but if the movie if the
movie is funny and not lowbrow and
stupid I will be okay with it the the
neon library goes spitting up
Nickelodeon slime is worrying though oh
there's so many worrying things it's
it's not going to have that same tone
where the monsters were serious
everything's gonna be wacky yeah well I
guess people you know when people
criticize this new Ghostbusters film of
not being serious people often complain
that the first one it's not being
serious and nobody ever fuckin said it
was but they they point to some of the
wacky elements in a Slimer and the scene
we haven't talked about the when dan
Aykroyd gets a blowjob from a ghost
while I was a kid I didn't quite
understand what was happening I was like
what's happening with his belt and then
cuts just facing along and then you know
it's a thing for adults to laugh at he
doesn't it's not like his pants fall
down and then you know he starts having
sex with her and then he farts and then
you know the ghost starts having sex
with Egon there's a joke about Egon
fucking slime in the second one if you
recall yeah it's a holdover from when
Harold Ramis and I have arrived and
worked on Animal House we've been going
about this all wrong this mr. Stay Puft
is okay he's a sailor he's in New York
we get this guy laid we won't have any
trouble the original film is like 90%
witty fun dialogue and interesting
characters interacting with each other
it is is it the most quotable movie of
all time
it might be it might be yeah there's so
many so many quotes and so many moments
do that that aren't necessarily quotable
but they are just so good like when they
when they take the elevator you know and
there's I don't manic yeah see you're
laughing already
just that seemed I'm taking the elevator
what are you guys supposed to be
cosmonauts no we're exterminators
someone saw a roach up on 12 or whatever
then they get in there and you know have
you tested these it's a nuclear
accelerator we're wearing unlicensed
nuclear accelerator Jean Rebecca I
regret that I have not tested this yet
and then and then simpleness he flips it
on
like that wouldn't make it oh so subtle
so funny so perfect the movie still
makes me laugh I know what the hell are
you doing sorry sorry I'm sorry we
thought you were someone else there's an
a a line of ADR in the film and Jay and
I have gotten two arguments about the
scene before where he claims it's not
the ADR and it wasn't added after the
fact and let me ask you this ray Stantz
says dickless over here shut down the
power grid
everything was mine with our system
until the power grid was shut off by
dickless here and then the city says
that's not true or whatever and Bill
Maher says it's true your honor
this man has no dick yes it's true this
man has no dick then I cut through
another shot and then you hear Bill
Murray in the background go well that's
what I heard all right all right all
right well that's what I heard
now what do you think about that line do
you think in post-production
Bill Murray said that kind of sounds
like I'm on sexual how would I know if
he has no dick you got to add in the
line of me saying well that's what I
heard all right all right well that's
what I heard
cuz it really sounds like it's not part
of the film and that it's an ad yard
line what are your thoughts on this I've
never heard him talk about this line on
anything no I've never heard anything
about this either it's just my personal
theory that it was added later that was
not in the screenplay
well how much the movie was actually in
the screenplay
I'm sure there was a lot of ad-libbing
going on so I can go either way I just
wanted to bring that up it might not
even have been 80-yard could have been
it could have been on the set he thought
oh no they're gonna think I'm gay they
said it Ben
I don't know I just always stuck out to
me that line and I also used to think as
a kid like that sounds weird what does
it sound like he's in the room what does
that mean and then I'm and then I was an
adult I'm like
it's true Your Honor this man has no
dick but I'm just continuing on the
scene that sounds like the perfect
comeback and that it was what I heard
yeah I don't know rich I also never knew
what Rea yelled when they walked in back
into their their science lab was hey
gene Yeager possibilities are limitless
hey Dean Yeager and I was like what's a
Hayden Yeager because I didn't know what
a Dean was I was too little it's a
college camping campus there's partying
going on and see some kind of drink
right uh uh II thought they're gonna
call I have a party they're gonna have a
toga party when the Dean showed up yeah
you need to deliver the one hey Dean
Yeager but instead he goes hey gene
Yeager 80 Yeager
it's like part-time like that we need a
different take on that hayden Yeager 80
Yeager Hayden Yeager what what does he
say uh whatever he's he's dan Aykroyd
what do you expect what does that mean I
don't he's weird I don't think we will
ever have a formal relationship a formal
contact with any alien species out there
especially after 9/11 when we broke our
toys in the sandbox if they were
observing that goodbye human race and
honestly I don't think they're a mass
threat but I do believe they're breaking
along serious by 1812 Oh
III think every little moment in
ghostbusters is somehow act into my
brain almost every little moment and
that's that's when you know you have a
really great film
everybody ages it's one for the ages and
I can't wait to watch most McCarthy fart
ectoplasm
