Jun 07, 2016
Escape from New York
youtube.com/watch?v=ff2YU6XtZ9o
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/740222506867494912
soundcloud.com/redlettermedia/review-escape-from-new-york
redlettermedia.com/escape-from-new-york-review

hello and welcome to review this is the
second episode of review the one in
which we both wear blue t-shirts and
that's the same thing as half in the bag
what is the show cuz it's just me and
you
it won't always just be me and you that
I know the first couple episodes are we
have to establish the series establish
something that people will want to watch
and then that's when we dump in like
rich Evans and and the the lesser red
letter media people that I nobody likes
right nobody but today we're talking
about John Carpenter's Escape from New
York from 1981 the difference between
this episode and the last one is that
our first episode tremors Jay and I both
loved the film yes and this is this is
an episode where Jay loved as a film and
I I don't say loathe but I I'm not a big
fan of okay and we're gonna discuss that
in detail so it's a little twist a
little twist on the formula and and
there will be probably be future
episodes where there's a movie that I
love that Jay absolutely hates I know
how much you love Waterworld well the
plot of Escape from New York is is very
simple it takes place in the future of
1997 the long far distant future of 1997
also according to the title card it's
now so I don't know how that works the
credit sequence is maybe the most
exciting credit sequence I've ever stat
that's how you start a credit scene of a
low-budget movie you get people in with
the with the mood of the movie with the
music but we'll get to the music I
suppose cuz I'm sure you're a huge fan
of that too but anyway it's 1997
inexplicably new Manhattan has been
walled off it's been turned into a giant
prison anyone for a crime is up 400% I
was gonna say not inexplicably that's
why sure but the idea of taking
Manhattan one of the most expensive
chunks of real estate in the country and
turning into a prison but who knows what
happen
do it in the you know the ten years
between when crime rose and now but yeah
it's been turned into a prison anyone
that commits any crime of any sort
immediately deported to the New York
prison and they're never let out yeah
and then the president is played by
Donald Pleasance and Air Force One gets
hijacked by by terrorists by radicals
that crash it into New York City and
it's up to Kurt Russell a Snake Plissken
it was about to be sent into the prison
anyway to rescue the presidents they
give him an ultimatum where if he does
it you will be pardoned of all of his
crimes yeah it's it's I have to say I
this is my this was my second viewing of
the film I had watched it in a number of
years back on your recommendation and I
hated it I was so bored and then upon
the second viewing I want to say I hated
it but but I'll be honest I appreciated
it more well it's it's a bit of an
anomaly because I think most people
consider it an action movie the action
is the weakest aspect of the movie
that's that's the thing it feels like a
movie that we've watched on best of the
worst where it has the typical 80s
action poster cover like go the machine
gun and then Statue of Liberty and yeah
all the stuff and then you watch it and
it's it's just like boring
I'm a fan of John Carpenter I don't hate
him as much I only hated ourselves on
precinct 13 he's he's really good at
mood yeah it's it's the atmosphere and
that's that's that's what I love about
escape from New York yeah there's more
so than the action because the most
exciting thing that happens in the whole
movie is Snake Plissken perforates a
hole in a wall with his gun he just kind
of jumps through it sounds like paper
mache but yeah it really is it's the the
the look of it the look of the worlds I
love sci-fi movies from that era from
like the 70s and 80s the the really and
a lot of this is necessitated by budget
but just that really like stark
minimalists like the prison at the
beginning of the movie there's not a lot
of detail on anything just some boards
with lights on it like I love that look
and then when he gets into the New York
City the prison like I love the look of
that world yeah and the funny thing is
they shot it in New York in 1980 and to
dress anything any of assets or anything
Times Square looks great just use it
steamcmd who shot Halloween classic Dean
Cundy cinematographer he did Halloween
he did this you know he went on to do
Back to the Future he did Jurassic Park
he did Jack and Jill all the classics a
Jack and Jill the the lighting in that
and the cinematography is just exquisite
absolutely the richness of color the the
the contrast the shadows the it's it's
painting with light yeah there's some
really nice shots in it there's
beautiful matte paintings and great
miniatures all sorts of stuff and they
didn't have a lot of time or money to do
lots of camera setups so huge chunks of
the movie take place are just shot in
these wide shots that are brand-new
lenses that shot in very low light so
you can see just blocks and blocks down
these streets that were basically just
lit with natural lighting and just with
these you know just with the street
lights and stuff
and the fact that so much of the movie
plays out in these why it's like you're
constantly aware of the surroundings
nika's lee aware and there's logistics
these you know gliding shots that follow
Snake Plissken along like it's very
dreamlike I Chi nice night it's a mood
piece it's it's what Quentin Tarantino
would call a hangout movie where there's
a story the story's serviceable the
concept is neat implausible but neat I
think but it really is more just about
sort of taking in this environment and
and and these characters cuz this is
like we talked about tremors as being
people think of it as the Kevin Bacon
movie but it's an assemble call listen
ensemble - because that Snake Plissken
meets all these these characters along
the way you got Ernest Borgnine as cabby
I love Ernest Borgnine is like the worst
actor I've ever seen oh my god he's
great in this movie he's always so he's
got like the mall Tov cocktail telling
you you don't walk around here usually
I'm not down around here myself but I
wanted to catch that show this stuff is
like gold around here you know
that's why I look at like Big Trouble in
Little China and just Kurt Russell
running around as well doing is John
Wayne impersonation and here he's doing
his space cop impersonation some might
say it's a Clint Eastwood impersonation
the very first character you see in the
film is space cop
it is a premise that it feels like a
five-year-old made like here the
president's gonna fly a plane over and
they have to drop them out in the
special escape egg and don't Pleasance
is in this escape bag with the briefcase
attached to his arm and it's so
ridiculous it's it's kardea but it's
played straight which is why it's so
there's no like there's no good if it
had like tons of like crazy
out-of-control action 1980s lock action
premise I'd be like yeah sure I mean
that's a tribute is the the low-budget
like that's a problem with a lot John
Carpenter movies is like his imagination
is bigger than his budgets were a lot of
the time it's a great premise for a
silly movie it's not a great premise for
a moody dark movie you're supposed to
kind of take seriously a guy with the
eye patch it's named snake that's right
you're just given because you're
supposed to take it seriously and that
that contrast in between the goofiness
of the premise and the characters and
the the serious tone is what I like
about it never winks at you though and
when it doesn't wink at you then you're
like are you for real it's hard for me
to get really really into it and is this
a case of you know rose-colored glasses
from from your childhood I actually
didn't see it when I was young I saw
this escape from LA first
the map paintings James Cameron a young
James Cameron worked on those map
paintings of the city and the creativity
of the way they accomplish things on a
low budget sure like there's there's
this one bit that I absolutely love
I see a miniature of the planes point of
view coming into the building they
couldn't afford to blow up a building or
crash a plane so it just cuts to this
monitor like just as it's about to hit
it's like oh that's clever it's a clever
way to get around the fact that you
couldn't do that
yeah I see I love I love certain
elements like that I love that he's so
yeah it was an accident
about an hour ago small jet went down
inside New York City the president was
on board president of wide that's not
funny
he doesn't care about anyone or anything
except what he has to accomplish these
an antihero there's that moment early on
when he's going down a hallway and he
looks in this room and there's a woman
like half unconscious being assaulted by
like three guys like they rip off her
shirt and he's looking in he just keeps
on going and they don't get in a lot of
movies a character that that is that
cynical and that far removed from what
you usually see as your your protagonist
he's essentially space cop he's he's
space cop yeah he acted just like Paul
Rudd in wet hot American summer his
character he's like I know you you have
a thing for post-apocalypse I do I'm a
favorite one yeah that's the
quintessential the the Romero character
the skinny punk-rock guy with the big
hair is like the quintessential like
post-apocalyptic like punk rock
character yep yep
you're not in there I'm 30 seconds he
dies you come back and he dies
the cyberpunk whatever the Cullen
robopong bladder become three that's
what that's what I aspire to be in the
post apocalypse just bladder Punk I just
want to wait around for like main
characters from a movie to show up in my
neighborhood and then when I see them on
the waiting list for this week's sitting
around I'm crazy and waiting for this in
beans out of can that's my my one goal
in life I understand
so Donald Pleasance aka the president
gets into a space egg our British
president a British misery yeah he has
an accent that should be noted gets into
a dr. evil egg and it's launched out
down there and then Snake Plissken is
tricked by scientists who tells him he's
going to be a knock you knock elated
knock elated to resist bacterial
infections but they really put two
capsules into his neck that will explode
in 24 hours protected by the course 15
minutes before the last hours up we can
neutralize the charge with x-rays what
if I'm a little late
no more hartford summon no more Snake
Plissken
that's as incentive to rescue the press
but in the script terms it's called what
the ticking clock and in this case it's
a literal literal ticking clock yeah
literally okay I'm gonna get a president
what what if I do this well shoot you
down if you try and fly the plane past
New York and leave yeah okay you know
then there's incentive motivation to get
the president it's his only motivation
cuz he doesn't give a fuck about
anything sure and then but then it's
like okay then the scientist guy goes
you gotta tell them that to me felt like
it was so much up front plot it's like
boom you're a president president was
down he's you know the splatter Punk's
got him
your necks gonna blow up in 24 hours got
to get nothing else I do like though
after there's the you know Snake
Plissken has dropped in and he's looking
for the president he's following the
tracker it's on the bomb and then for
that he just kind of doesn't know what
to do
yeah there's that great shot it's just
sort of following him along and he he
just takes a minute there's just a chair
and you just sits in the chair for a
minute he's just like well I'm out of
ideas
because that's not the kind of League
you see it in like an action movie or
the characters just like yeah now what I
don't know yeah even though there's a
laid-back quality to it that's really
nice and kind of fun this is the part
when he hides out the crazies are coming
out so he hides in the Chuck full of
nuts when he meets that woman plane
crash seven hours ago and he ready to
have a no did you see it you're like oh
love interest yeah oh I guess not
yeah you gonna kill me now snake
yeah and that's let's talk about the
music I was in I'm not the biggest fan
of John Carpenter's music it it's very
unique
it's something that a few years ago I
would say it dates the movie I like that
type of music just in general and not
even like a nostalgic way I like that
sand of sound but now that's starting to
get popular again so it's not even
really dated anymore yeah now it's
coming back around
it's retro retro popular again that
eighties 80s style
but this like I was picturing it with
like a really good full orchestral with
it without when we're traditional
actions or a lot of scenes would take on
a completely different like I thinking
about especially at the end when they're
going across the bridge
John Carpenter is referred oftentimes to
his scores as wallpaper I was like he
kind of wants you to just forget that
it's there it's just that our he thinks
of it more as like ambience a lot of the
time I mean ever there seems to be a lot
of people that love John Carpenter score
I'm just going to be honest I'm not one
of them I think I think I think it's a
detriment to the film I think it could
be the film could have been elevated a
little in terms of what it is supposed
to be write a movie about action scenes
yeah yeah there other parts that I
really I mean I like the music just
because I like that type of music but
like the part when he's going into the
city and the the little plane
and it's like this weird ethereal music
and you know we're seeing the miniatures
of the city like I like I like all that
stuff a lot there's a lot of admirable
qualities to escape from New York the
the ideas are all there it's just a
little executions a little cheap sloppy
I don't know
push that satire a little more give each
character a little more goofiness a
little little more over-the-top wink at
the audience a little more pump up that
score cut it a little faster do
something it to me it falls in the crack
between several types of things it's an
arranged way sure yeah I can understand
that when you talk about like like you
know up the humor make the characters
goofy or have more exciting action music
everything you're describing is escape
from LA maybe that'll be our next step
will do escape from LA at some point
that'll be in some episode in the future
that movies shit
