Sep 10, 2016
Blade
youtube.com/watch?v=CQZY5sEr31M
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/774610135452758016
soundcloud.com/redlettermedia/blade-review
redlettermedia.com/blade-review

well Jack we're not even ten episodes in
to review and now comic book movies have
infested our new show as well mm-hmm so
thank you I know I know I'm sorry hello
and welcome again to review this time
I'm joined by Jack and we're talking
about the 1998 film blamed starring
Wesley Snipes
the movie that everybody in the world
has forgotten about it you know there
there is the modern era of superhero
movies a lot of people assume it kicked
off with the x-men movies that's what
always gets the credit for what we're
still in - people talk about like the
the glut of comic book movies now but
it's been going for like 20 years it's
insane
it is it is but like a little movie
that's snuck in before the x-men movie
was blade a r-rated black starring well
he is Wesley Snipes is black this knife
is black we have a black main character
a black female lead an r-rated comic
book movie that that's snuck in there
before the glut of family-friendly comic
book movies well not even it was a
successful r-rated comic book movie long
before Deadpool yep it stars a black
hero now everyone's talking about like
with the the spider-man homecoming the
they made Mary Jane black and there's a
lot of diversity to the casts and Wesley
Snipes was doing this shit 20 years ago
so there's that and just successful
Marvel movie long before Marvel movies
were a thing the this is actually the
movie the the reason I really wanted to
talk about this is because no one's
talking about this and blade is the
movie that convinced Marvel Studios that
they could make money making movies
before that we had the awful Captain
America movie and the dolph lundgren
Punisher movie which you know
and let's not forget it's not Marvel but
as far as where comic book movies were
right before blade came out we had
Batman and Robin
we had the Phantom my favorites with
Billy Zane wearing purple spandex we had
the shadow which isn't technically
comic-book because it's kind of
superhero ish yeah I think they were
trying to make it in the style of the
popular comic book movies of the mid-90s
but we had Blankman
we we had meteor man we had darkman
darkman is the only good one maybe
you're misremembering Blankman because
that was awesome but but so you know
like Marvel was really bad at making
movies and then here comes blade and we
get early David Goyer who now is running
a lot of DC Cinematic Universe that's
another thing to point out yeah all
these things that started with blade
right and even not necessarily comic
book related but just the style of his
blade a year later we got the matrix
and in trench coat
techno flag translate yeah but yeah so
you have all of these things that
existed already and it was a super
successful movie according to Wikipedia
it had a production budget of 45 million
and grossed over a hundred and seventy
million remember in the days when 170
million was a hit all these things we've
just talked about right all the
connections to where comic book movies
would go and where the visual style the
late 90s would go and start of David s
Goyer doing these comic movies all these
things are way more interesting than
blade itself it's really true I have I
was in love with blade when I was a
teenager the movie came out when I was
16 years old and I was a dumb kid who
thought techno was awesome and sword
fighting was awesome
there's nothing dumb about either of
those things
techno music Insecta music and swords
that was like the 90s right that's all
the nineties isn't it weird how dated
how poorly aged the 90s cool is compared
to other decades like this things from
the seventies that are still cool
there's things from the early 2000s
they're still cool but there's that
period the matrix black trenchcoat
techno music period that is just aged
horribly all the 90s it's a bad hair
baggy outfits and Stephen Dorff the poor
man's Christian Slater before Christian
Slater was the poor man's Christian
Slater oh my god oh but despite these
things because I saw blade either in the
theater or when it first came out on
video I saw it once I have literally not
thought about it since since I said hey
let's talk about he said hey let's talk
about blade now it's like oh yeah that
movie everybody's everybody for it had
two sequels and it had a TV series yeah
it had at least one video game
absolutely and nobody talks about blade
ever one of the sequels that has
heartthrob Ryan Reynolds in it and a
girl but was her Jessica Biel Jessica
Biel yeah but they let David Goyer
direct way to be so for some reason it
bombed we heard and so how about instead
of that we'll just give him the DC
Cinematic Universe you can't mess
anything up over there well I'm
convinced at this point David cuz David
s Goyer has written a lot mainly comic
book movies if you look at his IMDB it's
all comic book movies except you gotta
start with demonic toys the classic
demonic toys
the the s in David s Goyer stands for
sloppy because he's a terrible
screenwriter but as someone like max
landis will point out you know you don't
write a movie you write a script right
and then where it goes after that what
the filmmakers do with it it kind of
turns into a different thing it's its
own beast and I think the strength of a
movie written by David s Goyer is
completely dependent on who is making
the movie because he wrote the second
one to the second blade film which is of
course visionary filmmaker Guillermo del
Toro oh he wrote it's the Christopher
Nolan Batman movies and those turned out
pretty well yeah but then he also wrote
the Zack Snyder directed films Man of
Steel and Batman V Superman so I think
David s Goyer is a hack that has just
lucked out into having some interesting
filmmakers make his movies do you know
who would agree with you on that is
David s Goyer okay if you listen to the
blade commentary track which I listened
to last night because now I'm all back
into blade he mentioned specifically on
the commentary track that he is really
bad at individual scene writing and
dialogue writing so the the main
elements of a screenplay he admits he's
badass yeah that's interesting but what
he says he goes you know for me it's all
about the structure like I am really
good at structure so I can make a good
superhero movie and then you know the
actors will fill in the dialogue and
these are things he said yes that
explains so much well and the Wesley
Snipes who also produced the movie and
the stars in it and the other producers
on the commentary track and they both
admit like Wesley Snipes would figure
out what the character would do to start
and end a scene for every scene and all
that like the director and the producers
would go oh yeah that works much better
give my regards to Frost
speaking of Wesley Snipes and the
character of blade his performance in
the movie to me is is emblematic of the
entire movie which is it's like 50/50 on
pretty good m and bad
you met blade he does a lot of the gruff
talk he's space cop where he's super
ultra serious all the time except
occasionally he's just not like early on
he gets shot he's like what do you think
you're doing or something like that
you're like that's what weirdest come
from you have to you have to just blame
it was whoever directed blade I forego
his name Stephen Norrington that was his
first feature no he did a movie called
low budget movie called death machine oh
and then he did they because of the
strength of that he got blade oh and
then he went on to do the League of
Extraordinary Gentlemen and he was never
seen again oh how awful
yeah I think he does a good job in blade
as far as the visuals and the action
goes it's not overly choppy there's a
lot but you can see the choreography
that's going on and you can tell that
there actually was choreography oh just
super close-ups shaky-cam cut every two
seconds
and that's the best stuff in the movie
the movie opens it has possibly one of
the strongest opens in all superhero
movies ever
a rave vampire party that ends with them
getting showered with blood a rave
vampire party that's in the back of like
a meat locker right and we're being led
into this world by Traci Lords who is
like third or fourth billed and she
doesn't even make it past the opening
credits you know here's just vampires
getting showered with blood and then
disintegrating and turning it's a bad
seat and turning into cartoon skeletons
CG in this movie is not aged well
but we do learn at the end of the movie
inside their skeletons are other tinier
skeletons with little bat wings
and it just looks terrible looks the
worst I guess my only defense is you
have to remember 1998 we didn't have
nice high-definition televisions maybe
they look better on I'm sure it looked
better on VHS it's just oh it aged so
poorly
so we're saying his watch blade on your
phone and it'll look great we get some
fun monsters we get some fun gore like
pearl which you know leads into a fun
action sequence we get this giant fat
goblin vampire thing whenever I picture
internet trolls that's what the like
picture is it pearls surrounded by
monitors Jennifer Lawrence isn't that
hot 5:02 pen would not bang
I think another like fun part about this
as a superhero movie and it's something
I wish would happen more often in
superhero movies is blade is already
established this is not an origin story
yes yes and how refreshing is that movie
where our hero does shit already we get
hints at the backstory we get flat-out
exposition of the backstory later on but
what you need I mean this is the
introduction of this character but we
don't need to see first 45 minutes is
establishing how we become so he becomes
and then the second half is oh then we
have to have him fight someone yep now
he's fighting the villain or whatever
yeah yeah that's the way a lot of the
Marvel movies are structured yeah like
and maybe maybe it's because we've
forgotten about blade we need to bring
some of this back yeah we understand
superheroes are a thing now we get it we
don't need to spend two thirds of the
movie of them figuring it out and that
leads into another thing I really liked
about the movie is the world-building
that's a glyph vampire cattle brand
means it offers a create somebody's
property it's really like it's it's
actually pretty interesting the the kind
of hierarchy of vampires where you have
the pure breads and then you have the
what do they call them when you're a
human that gets bit and becomes a
vampire that's what Stephen Dorff is and
he's he's insecure about that oh yeah
yato Spoleto Oh jamika doris eres de
muchacha mati all and power us to
Prakriti oomphel at post anaconda bronco
i thought its t cuz I think it's the
stevedores character what's-his-name
Deacon Frost it's like the most 90s bad
guy name ever
I think he's an OK villain I think his
relationship with the the head of the
vampires was more interesting than his
relationship with blade he didn't have a
relationship with buddy CBIZ mom
whatever well but just yeah like his his
insecurity about being only a half of am
pyre and then taken out who dokie r
ripping out his vampire fangs and making
him explode in a horrible CGI explosion
I thought all that was way more
interesting than him as generic bad guy
that wants to raise the blood god well
another thing I really liked is that the
main female lead is not a love interest
mm-hmm which I thought was nice she's
just there and she has shit to do
sungkyu was a cure but maybe you could
use it to explode some vampire heads
like so she invents a cure for vampirism
she finds a new way to explode vampires
which is kind of awesome which would be
awesome if it wasn't for the effects
and they stabbed those ones on their
heads bulge up and then explode I was
thinking of a Big Trouble in Little
China Department the guy who expands and
explodes and how much better that looked
they establish at a certain point I
can't remember the main female
characters name Karen is that it it is
now blood doctor blood doctor Whistler
is talking to her and he establishes
that he doesn't have much longer he's
got cancer yeah and then five minutes
later he just gets killed by the bad
vampires anyway yep oh I do we need him
to have cancer are we supposed to care
about him more when he dies because he
had cancer probably like we already
loved him as the father figure as the
the aging gunslinger yeah ya know then
he dies and then there's a fun
back-and-forth like I say fun you know
the devastating back and forth between
him and blade and shoot me blade no Jim
you got our eyes
so then you hear him shoot himself
off-camera but doesn't he come back in
the sequel he does I was looking I was
watching the sequel this morning I
didn't quite finish it he turns into a
vampire oh man and blade finds him and
cures him of his vampirism because he
has a cure for vampirism now right
there's a blood doctor oh they do carry
that over yeah okay that's good and he
joins a ragtag group of vampires hunting
an even worse type of vampire the vagina
face wands yeah yeah yeah a vagina
vampires yeah so no him having cancer
makes no sense there is there is a lot
of stuff that is set up and paid off and
that's what makes moments like that oh
yeah I wish there's got cancer yeah
oh what's the payout whistlers dead oh
you just got killed yeah all right yeah
and then there's just some weird lines
some motherfuckers are always trying to
ice skate uphill the final action line
of the movie that's what we're ending
with the fuck does that even mean some
things are hard but people tried to do
them what is it
how does that even relate to anything
we've just witnessed I I'm going to
assume that that was a Wesley Snipes
line actually it's not oh really
we're talking about it in the commentary
that's that's something that blade or
that's something that Wesley Snipes just
said randomly in a meeting yeah and
David s Goyer thought it was the coolest
thing well okay so it did come from
Wesley Snipes then but then Wesley
Snipes said no we shouldn't use that in
the movie that's just something like we
say yeah that's not no that's not a good
line and Cory's like that's the line
like I get it it's it's dated blade is
has not aged well aspects of it haven't
it's still a pretty solid action movie
there's a part where Wesley that I keep
want to call them Wesley Snipes Wesley
Snipes
rips out a guy's throat and then throws
it in another guy you're not gonna see
that in ant-man Paul Rudd excuse me for
a second I need to borrow your throat
and you know we're ready now now with
the success of Deadpool now with the
possibly over prolific ation of
superhero movies we're ready again for
some gritty yet well this this movie is
an example of how good it is to keep
things simple like you mentioned there's
no backs there's no setup knowest an
origin story it's just a very simple
straightforward story it's a couple
scenes that are maybe missing like like
how quickly she invented the serum to
stop vampirism she's like a really good
blood dog or how the bad guys found
blades headquarters so there's a couple
scenes missing but overall the story
itself is very straightforward and
simple and not I would say the runtime
is too long these two hours concerned a
little bit of that out but it's the
movie itself doesn't feel like bloated
it's very straightforward it's it's a
perfect like Sunday afternoon hangover
movie which doesn't even really slide on
the movie because we need movies like
that oh you know you can turn away check
Twitter write some emails come back and
kind of know exactly what's going on
it's it's a background movie absolutely
as soon as the song that kind of sounds
like smack my bitch up starts then you
then you put your phone down and you
watch again
