Oct 13, 2016
The Gate
youtube.com/watch?v=3lEpSofvkdo
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/786567284777037825
redlettermedia.com/the-gate-review/

welcome back to the Stephen Dorff show
where we discuss all the greatest
Stephen Dorff films last time we did
blade next week we're going to be doing
SFW oh that's a good one and then after
that's perhaps sussel be demented and
then I guess we're done with Stephen
Dorff is that it that's it okay cool
but today we're doing the gate fill the
gate this is a movie we're talking about
spooky Halloween movies and this is not
one that really comes up all that often
yeah I kind of it's it's one that gets
forgotten a lot but it's very fun it's
perfect yeah it's a perfect Halloween
season movie because I mean as a kid it
was terrifying
I sell this movie when I was a wee lad
and it scared the shit out of me it's
not particularly scary as an adult but
it's still creative and fun it's it's
one of those things where it's tough to
reevaluate and make sure that I'm not
just connecting it to that sense memory
of just like I mean the the minions
still kind of weird me out because
there's that that weird perky jerking
this of them yes or but there's just a
really good good atmosphere
yeah good spooky atmosphere well there
might be a lot of people that aren't
familiar with the game so very quickly
what is the gate about well there's a
family up in Canada somewhere and
there's a rotten tree in their backyard
and they have it torn down as you should
but it turns out there's a gate to hell
under there
during during the weekend where the kids
are all alone mom and dad have gone and
they've left the kids in charge of the
house and gland the youngest played by
tiny Stephen Dorff has this metalhead
friend who has this awesome satanic
record from Europe that his dad brought
over these guys are like really serious
about demonology and it's like they're
trying to warn you see these guys knew
your world through music they got their
lyrics from this thing called the dark
book that's like the Bible for demons I
didn't I didn't necessarily have those
records cuz I wasn't really into like
that sort of European power metal but
that stuff was around yeah and it was
there a ton of this is one of my
favorite actual genres of the 80s it's
just that the 80s horror movies most of
which actually this is sort of the
inverse where a lot of them are you play
the record record backwards and you
summon the demons oh yeah or it's all
connected with heavy metal because heavy
metal is all about you know demons and
celebrating the devil but in this one
when you play the record backwards it
actually tells you the spell to close
the gate backwards which I don't know
why that had to be backwards on the
record other than just you know metal
cuz that's what you do because that's a
metal maybe the movie that introduced
that concept to me to the idea oh sure
record back to here like evil messages
or whatever as a kid I was captivated by
that oh me too
I mean it was so prevalent in like
around that time they were like for
parents that couldn't deal with their
metalhead kids they would have like
camps to like deprogram metalheads and
just like oh god
we're ridiculous over half of those
songs either the titles or the lyrics
have something to do with sex so what
it's a popular subject nowadays and not
just with rock music that's true but
does that make it right but that's this
movie came out in the height of what was
called the satanic panic period and this
is certainly a part of that absolutely
if we don't educate one
it's gonna be the crime of the night
news Terry this is a record album but
see there are these songs that tell you
about the whole ritual for opening the
gate we did it
what's the name of them is it the dark
book or it's something really sit is the
darkness not the dark blood the dark
book I love the backstory of that band
this is their only album and after they
made it they'll died in a plane crash
look what I love about this movie is
it's it understands kids in a way that a
lot of movies don't and and it's weird
to talk about the silly horror movie
like that but it really does as far as
like the kind of things that scare kids
the way kids talk uh well first of all I
love to tear he's like a metalhead but
he's also a nerd yes oh it's not usually
in a movie like this you get one of the
other but you knew kids like that yeah
exactly I wasn't that kid but I was
friends with that kid kind of was but uh
yeah but I love that he tells to scare
tiny Stephen Dorff he tells in that
story about the construction worker that
got buried in the wall yeah like the
kind of shit you tell your friends to
scare them when you're a kid right hey
just make up stories and you're just
kind of yeah but it's got that it's got
the the good dynamic of the older sister
getting a brother and you know he's not
ready for her to grow up but she's
getting towards that point and wants to
be more with her own friends you can
relate to one of the three main
characters they're just tiny Stephen
Dorff there's the older sister and then
there's Terry the neighbor calling me
out my name is Alexandra where are we
gonna launch him well you can do
whatever you want I've got to go you see
a whole lot of model rockets in this
movie oh yeah this kid is goddamn
obsessed with model rockets their scene
after scene of him just staring at them
yeah
I don't know what leads to it but Terry
and little Stephen Dorff are in the
closet and they find the giant rocket
yes the kid's dad thought he thought he
threw it away but he didn't throw it
away it's just hidden in there yeah
almost and then Al and her two friends
come in and that's when we get the
obligatory 80s OMA phobic slur almost in
the weirdest context what are you doing
probably fag nosh I've never heard that
in my life that doesn't whatever it
means I mean it has to be inappropriate
to say to a nine year old to nine year
old boy yeah hey don't think the other
thing is that actually the rest of the
insults throughout that I think it's
that scene it's just like suck my nose
till my head caves in like that's that's
Korean for a little kid that's pretty
good
I love the way that actually the the
demons are sort of introduced to the
movie where it's very deliberate you
know and it's hey this gate is kind of
creepy or this hole in the ground is
like seems a little odd but there's a
geode in there and then let's go look
for more geodes and then when the crack
the giant geode open which is like this
there's no G oh that's that large if
there isn't it's in a gateway to hell I
guess but then when they crack that up
and it it gets the the words that they
need to continue opening the gates onto
this like a look at that just catch
thing yeah well I love horror movies
with a mythology to them it's all in
here did G oh oh yeah I appreciate that
you know again it's got this template in
the dark book where it's just you know a
Terry is able to point out to Glenn just
like look at this you know here's the
geode and here are the minions and
here's this and just yeah that's exactly
what happens and it lays it all out in a
creative way it's not just like boring
exposition no no go to a library and
look at it old book like it the fact
that it's in this this metal album yeah
and that's what I like about this movie
too is the
they just kind of go along with
everything they just kind of believe
this stuff is it's happening oh sure
I love the scene when they're in the
backyard explaining to the older sister
what's under the door hey did you guys
dig in that hole again
we accidentally summon demons who used
to rule the universe to come and take
over the world I appreciate that
throughout it like Glenn is more worried
about he wants to call his parents what
everybody never tries to lie to al it's
the older sister to like like oh we
didn't do this like yeah we did that
yeah and it's fucked up and help yeah
because yeah there's a lot of trust
between the characters because that's a
big aspect of the movie is the fact that
the parents are completely absent yeah
they hit the Stephen Dorff and his
sister their parents are out of town the
Terry character whose parents or well
his mom's gone expertise mom yeah his
mom's dead and then the setup of Terry's
house is just perfect and just like
there's trash everywhere like dads
clearly always gone Terry's mostly by
himself I love that in this room he's
got a drum kit and a parachute that just
has metal spray painting on it this is
like that's yeah that's like what a
nine-year-old kid thinks metal is it's
awesome
the whole movie what I like about it is
that it has a sort of dreamlike yes
atmosphere to it like even just normal
scenes like there's sort of a hazy look
to it like they just blew a puff of
smoke into the shot or something but
there's that first moment where that
gets genuinely kind of creepy look for a
kid's movie where Terry goes downstairs
and it's his mom there
and it's the first example it happens
throughout the movie - because I
established the parents are kind of
absent this idea of you know when you're
that age like your parents are sort of
your safety and your comfort and this
movie violates that multiple Dodd almost
immediately as soon as the the tree is
down you're not it's Eames like they're
already starting to kind of bring that
sort of all of this is happening in
their heads yeah well even or that the
opening of the movie
oh yeah he's riding his bike down the
street he goes into his house
everybody's gone there's a full meal on
the table for everybody but just like
nobody's there and that's how you know a
shot in Canada sees big old bottle of
brown sauce sitting on the table I
didn't even notice oh yeah yeah just
simple building indicators of hey
there's something not right
there's something really not right yeah
oh shit something's gonna come out of
there yeah it's kind of like what we
talked about Eraserhead out sort of
eases you into the world obviously a
much different movie than Eraserhead
but it does that same thing where yeah
it starts off kind of subtly surreal and
it escalates and it escalates and things
get crazier yeah and then by the end
it's just like madness I think it's that
night that were introduced to another
part that scared the crap out of me is a
little kid which is the arms coming out
of the bed yes
I remember probably because of this
movie when I was going to bed at night
I'd flip the light switch off and jump
from that corner of the room to my bed
not only their arms under the bed they
can stretch we can get all the way all
the way across the room yeah and that
that in that shot there is yeah there's
initially just the one arm that kind of
comes you know like a normal arm length
out and then there are three or four
arms and then yeah the one is all the
way barely let's I'll get out of the
room finally they discover one of the
minions they're so great that's one
thing FX was they did a really good job
on is there's a lot of force perspective
yes that works fantastically let me know
great there's a couple shots or their
little rubber puppets and they look like
a rubber puppets then there's other
shots where they have so much movement
because yeah it's guys and guys in suits
yeah they do first perspective which I
guess if no one's there no if someone
doesn't understand its let's say you
have two people next to each other you
want to make one look bigger you have
them get closer to the camera yeah
simplest old-school effects they used it
in the Lord of the Rings movies and it's
used so well here there's a shot later
on it's still amazing to me this shot
where there's the guy in the wall was on
behind the wall yeah he falls straight
forward and when he hits the ground he
just turns into a bunch of minions and
they're all scattering around and
they're in the same frame with the you
know the teenager with the kids and yeah
it's all done in camera yeah it's
amazing yeah it's just yeah I was
clearly they shot it with the with the
with the speed low so there's a quicker
movement and yeah it's just the the the
overwhelming feeling yeah yeah it's very
odd the first thing that happens when
the they discover the meetings in the
backyard is they run out the front door
their Islands Stephen Dorff and this is
a genuinely creepy shot still to me
puts his basically puts his hands
through dad's face yeah and then like
milk like milky water pours out and it's
just like Joe whoa that's not right
that's the second instance of like yeah
kind of violating yeah relationship with
your parents at that age it does it does
a really smart job of just getting you
stuck in that house in that one location
right and without without saying like we
can't get out we're stuck here like you
just find out that you're stuck there
yeah well especially at that age - yeah
like an adult would be like let's get
the fuck out of here no kid like you
don't know anywhere but your house where
are you gonna run to
gotta go Terry's house fuck not you
can't get there
Terry standing too close to the gate
falls in and that's when you get the
really great creepy shot where these
like regular-sized feet are in the you
know in the hole and then all the
minions like 30 minions are coming at
him and they're grabbing at his feet he
stomps on one and they've got the speed
super cranked down it just like starts
like freaking out
yeah just it's so bizarre because it
like he stomps on you expect him to like
squish it or something like I think of
like a like a gremlins type seeing or
yeah oh here's the gross part but he
doesn't squish him you just make some
flip out yeah what I like about that
scene too is there's a few times
throughout the movie where when I say
okay I'm like I mentioned how this movie
kind of really understands kids is like
what is a kid gonna do in these
situations and they're going to use
things they know or understand so it's
like in that scene they throw down like
an old swing to help get Terry out of
the out of the hole later in the movie
there's the the kind of ghoul version of
Terry that sticks his head out of it yes
it my sister uses a Barbie doll to stab
it in the eye and it's and then of
course the rocket comes into play at the
end so it's all these like like
relatable kid things and that's what
they use to combat the threat
these upstairs win the giant fucking
demon with this essentially like a big
big minion with eight arms yeah it's a
similar design but it's got four eyes
it's got arms and tentacles yeah that
thing's covered yeah and it's it's a
wonderful wonderful stop motion creature
I love there's so much detail on it not
as not it just as far as like the look
of it but also I mean they have its
chest breathing you know which is
something that gets overlooked a lot in
stop-motion creatures and it has like a
like a smoother movement to it it
doesn't motion I don't know if it was a
different technique or what but uh so
the demon picks up Glenn it kind of
Pat's him on the head puts him back down
and that's what gun realizes looks as
palm that was the part that scarred me
as a child
yeah that that eyeball on the hand so
much so III I subconsciously stoled that
moment from a short film part pork in
space that's right there's a part when
there's a little glob of flesh that's on
the the edge of the sink and there's an
eyeball in it and like if you look at it
the way the eyeball is looking around
it's exactly the way the eyeball is
looking around on my end
haha didn't even I wasn't even thinking
about image was just burned somewhere
into the back of my brain from when I
was a kid that's yeah if you see that
when you're kid you can't forget that
thing
that's like the one thing in the movie
that's not set up that's just sort of a
creepy vision for its own sake yeah yeah
that's good for the atmosphere and it's
not you know it's not egregious no and
it's the image that stuck with me yeah
than anything else in the movies yeah
basically like the way the way you
defeat the demon is with love and light
but that's when Glenn realizes that the
conduit he has to that is his sister's
love they're sure their shared bond is
the fucking model rocket and they
somehow managed to introduce all that
without it feeling schmaltzy no it's it
doesn't feel like like schmaltzy
condescending kid movie crap
apart from there's one like really
shitty effect part of that where it's
just like a flap con opens up and oh
yeah
no Angus didn't die no Terry didn't die
al didn't either therefore they're fine
they were just over here the thing I
like though is that in another like
movie aimed at younger audiences they
probably have everything go back to
normal
yeah like the house would go back to
normal the staircase would fix itself
and everything would be fine but at the
end of this movie that house is just
completely fucked but yeah it's just
kind of uh yeah it's it's it's a good uh
reset in terms of things really matter
and not a reset in terms of the things
that wouldn't make sense right now
that's kind of that's kind of a good
sort of wrap up of the whole movie where
it's just it's good about the things
that matter and doesn't do a lot of
things don't make sense yeah simple as
that
now the question is does this movie
would this movie hold up for someone
that didn't watch it when they were a
kid uh someone that's an adult now yeah
probably not
you don't think so maybe I I think it
would because unlike a lot of kids
movies it doesn't feel like a movie that
was just aimed at kids yeah it kind of
has that sort of cynical adults like
this is what kids want to see it's like
you can watch it as an adult and it
reminds you of what it was like to be a
kid and what scared you as a kid but
this one there's there's those elements
and there's just the creativity that
filmmaking the visual effects know I
think if people are like if number when
people are generally interested in
horror movies or in just number two
movies in general they'll find a lot to
appreciate here I'm just trying to think
of just like the average person that
doesn't mean it's just like wants to
watch a horror movie because it's
October now and they're probably going
to be too cynical to really let
themselves fall into that world maybe
this is my general thought not my hope
well honestly I see what you mean there
what's not yeah it's not a kids movie
it's a family movie it's it's what I
like to call a gateway movie yeah which
is like a movie that like gremlins or
something like that that a younger
person can watch that's you know a
little bit of an edge and might scare a
smaller kid but gets you interested in
horror and they don't have a lot of
movies like that now no Grampus last
year which have you seen Krampus know
sweet old guys without solving saying
that Krampus is so great but that's the
first one in forever that kind of had
that same feel
cut okay that's good leaders we need
more movies like that you for sure for
sure we need more movies that a kid can
watch but still features a small boy
ripping off his dad's face
fun fact do you know what movie opens
the same day as the gate in 1987 or
whatever this movie came out I do not
three two three four four two three
and these men of pawns after the price
of twenty thousand to hem on their heads
next they will be hailed as the true
Messenger of God just a couple of
songwriters who came to Ishtar to break
into show business its Ishtar Gate
kicked it fucking ass oh yeah
you
