Jul 03, 2016
Eraserhead
youtube.com/watch?v=UmvNJ3YuH9o
soundcloud.com/redlettermedia/review-eraserhead
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/749745188172509184
redlettermedia.com/eraserhead-review

hello and welcome to review this episode
I'm joined by Josh hello and this is the
episode that'll let you know in future
episodes when you see the two of us
together you're probably just gonna want
to click off cuz we're not gonna be
talking about the Goonies or whatever
it's true
although I do love Goonies you do but
today we're talking about Eraserhead
David Lynch's seminal film his first
feature length film it's one of my very
favorites one of my absolute favorite
movies - well briefly Eraserhead is
technically about a man named henry
thats accidentally impregnates his
girlfriend they find out the baby's
going to be born deformed which it is
it's the most horrifying thing ever oh
my god and she decides she can't handle
it so she leaves him
and and things descend into madness from
there yeah that's the story of the movie
and the nice thing is there is a story
yes because I sometimes get frustrated
with movies that just get too lost in
the abstract and and that's and David
Lynch is accused of that and that movie
specifically people are like oh it's
weird for the sake of weird or it's all
nonsense like there is a pretty clear
story all those you have that through
line that you can follow or a character
you can connect with even if you don't
necessarily understand everything
surrounding it you have something to
grasp on to and that's I think that's
needed in a movie like those absolutely
yeah and like I agree with you it's got
that three line the whole way through
where you can just really nutshell it's
just like this is a story about a guy
who is not ready for marriage or
Parenthood yeah
but there's a lot of other stuff that
goes on well that's that was what was so
surprising the first time I saw it cuz I
had heard oh it's this weird movie it's
lots of crazy visuals and nonsense you
won't be able to make any sense of it
that's why I heard for years and then so
I was like surprised the first time I
watched it I was like I get this feeling
I'm not like an elitist like oh I
understand it just like it seems so
clear to me yeah and there's certain
there's certain stuff that you don't
necessarily you know it's more abstract
like the man on the planet or the lady
in the radiator but they still have
their you can kind of suss out what the
general purpose is and again it's window
dressing to that main story right I
still have no idea why the fuck the lady
in the radiator has the giant cheeks
because I have no idea what that might
potentially mean but it's fun it's fun
it's fun it's interesting though the
first time I watched it my general
interpretation was like yeah is like oh
this is clearly about the anxiety of
becoming a parents yeah you're not ready
to
we washing
and and INRI watching it just now like
and this is the great thing about the
movie is you kind of you know it's open
to interpretation people always say that
but it's true mmm where this last time I
was watching it wasn't so much about
that specifically it felt more just like
general anxiety of like settling is how
I saw it
sure like he you know he impregnates his
girlfriend you get the impression that
they're not really that connected like
he clearly has an awkward relationship
with her family and wait his dinner
scene ever put on film she cut them up
like regular chickens sure just come up
like regular chickens it's very that was
one of the scenes where I could
definitely kind of gauge as I saw it as
the as the years have gone on like how
my reaction has changed to it initially
I was like oh this is wacky hilarious
like there's the chickens and they're
man-made but they're new and watching it
now and you know at a later age it's
horrifying yeah the whole thing apart
from like a little you know little
things here and there like you know want
to see my knees hungry well it's also
it's yeah it's a funny movie
yeah and that's I think when sometimes
people when they talk about David Lynch
they talk about you know the the the
abstract elements are the the creepier
elements because you make I mean they're
shit in movies that is far scarier than
anything in a more traditional horror
movie but I think sometimes people don't
point out how funny his movies are -
yeah I mean there's some really funny
stuff in those
okay even in the initial scenes where
Henry's just walking through the you
know industrial landscape it's a very
chaplain kind of thing where you just
kind of walking along like this and the
the fats waller music is playing it's
just like this is you know this is kind
of light fun until little things start
happening yeah but it's definitely kind
of got that undercurrent all the way
through even some just the visuals where
it's like it's I mean trying to explain
why something is funny is nearly
impossible yeah just because it's so
subjective but like what do you know at
the beginning yeah he's walking through
the industrial landscape he goes into
his apartment building and gets in the
elevator
and the doors don't close and like don't
close and it just holds on it and then
finally they closed and that's funnier
tit like the the hangover movies don't
make me laugh but just those elevator
doors closed II just that anticipation
to just oh okay
yeah yep yeah absolutely and that
actually speaks to another quality of
the film that I really like is that it's
very very deliberate and it feels that
way not in a in a showy way like look at
this watch this watch is going to happen
but just this is everything in that
movie happens when it's supposed to all
the cuts yeah that's something else I
notice in rewatching it that I didn't
quite pick up on as strongly before is
how precise it all is in the
cinematography which is gorgeous black
and white but it's very all the shots
are locked down they're very sort of
stark yeah the precision of the editing
it's very like mannered in a way that
David Lynch is later movies are more
fluid I would say like there's a lot
more kind of floaty camerawork and they
have they don't feel like this movie it
feels like you're like confined in a
tiny box hmm that's a baby is it the
hospital oh and you're the father that's
impossible it's only still is a baby
it's premature but there's a baby uh so
let's talk a bit about the baby Oh God
they're not even sure it is a baby which
again initially it's just like that
Bloods funny like know that lines not
funny yeah Oh God Oh No
yeah and it's I believe like david
lashus never explains how they did it is
isn't the the the myth or the legend
that it was like a like a calf like a
desert after their in their speculations
as a calf or a rabbit or a lamb it's too
real I mean it's not yeah it doesn't
look like a puppet I mean it moves kind
of like a puppet but it looks so fleshy
fleshy and gross yeah but at the end
when when when Henry discovers that the
the bandages are actually the thing
that's keeping it together that's that's
amazingly just like I mean it it it's a
black-and-white movie but it's gory
and that is just like everything's and
you can kind of smell it when he opens
it hell yeah comes through your tell ya
the sounds are reportedly recordings of
David Lynch's daughter Jennifer the idea
that that is his actual child making
those noises adds just like another
layer to the movie yeah I mean what the
what the movies about
when people talk about how they miss
practical effects everybody brings up
movies like the thing is a teasing no
one ever mentions the the creepy baby
from Eraserhead
yeah like the most convincing thing it's
it's it is and there's no point until
like the very end where all of a sudden
the head is the size of the room well
it's like well that's then it kind of
looks a little like paper mache that's
pretty comical but even before that when
the head is like the neck is just
stretching across the room yeah like
that looks real enough to me let's talk
about Jack Nance though oh sure Jack
Nance is the role he was born to play
absolutely he is Eraserhead
yeah yeah he kept that the movie was
shot over five years legendarily they
kept running out of funding yeah to
finish the movie and he kept his hair
like that the entire five years like
that's that's dedication
exactly he's so perfect in the role he's
so awkward and passive and just things
are happening and he has no idea what to
do at hardly any point yeah to the point
where when he first when they first her
back in the apartment married with the
baby and he lies down on his bed like
smiling like that's kind of unsettling I
don't feel like he should be that
comfortable at any point during the
movie it's the only time he really is as
you say yeah no one really except for
the lady in the radiator which we talked
about hurt a bit but yeah everybody just
looks miserable all the time and Mary's
dad well in Mary's dad but there's
clearly something off about him that's
like a rictus rinses hey yeah yeah you
know that's not happiness that's mental
illness well that seems apropos for
looking for this movie really in a way
um but yeah nothing's nobody's normal
the closest to get is the the attractive
woman across the hall and she's almost
feels like she's a cipher or something
where it's just something that has to
happen yeah
rather than anything of a character yeah
she's not really a person she's more of
an ideal and that's what yeah I'm
thinking what I was saying earlier about
the movie feeling INRI watching it more
about just like settling in general
which also ties in with the lady in the
radiator which
used to kind of see and it's almost too
literal because like she's singing you
know and he says that awesome song yes
in heaven everything is fine
and so I was kind of saw her as more
like his only way out is suicide is to
just kill himself
and that's how he says here and now I'm
rewatching it it was like more it's just
a general figure of hope yes
like I in thinking about the woman
across the hall and then you know then
we go to the lady in the radiator and
that she's the only one smiling mmm and
the little spermy guys fall from the
ceiling and she steps on him like no
kids around here got it all wrapped up
it sounds like a good test she's just a
general figure of hope yeah I definitely
agree with that for sure the hope and
escape yeah
because that's what happens right then
when like Henry is married with the baby
and that's the first time he sees the
lady in the radiator the other thing the
stage lights up so it's almost just like
a harbinger of like something's gonna
happen back here yeah
and that as things get worse he's he's
retreating more into that world and you
could also interpret you know at the
very end you know they embrace like he's
he's he's done well and hope has come to
take him away or he killed himself or
you could go either way exactly there
there aren't a lot of things in this
movie that could be specifically like
that's what that is well that's and it
shouldn't be there's nothing more boring
than someone dissecting a movie in the
most literal way possible there like
this represents this and this symbol I
like there's nothing interesting about
that yeah I get like let your mind play
um but as long as we're talking about
the world of the movie we could talk
about the sound that's the other major
that's that's a supporting role in the
movie it is it's revolutionary I mean
there's there was nothing else like that
before yeah uh they spent a year doing
just doing the sound sound design for
the movie
Lynch and Allen split I believe is how
you pronounce it really dead now
yeah and feed that a long time ago
they're all dead now
no it is another character in the movie
where it's always there it's there more
than anybody else in the movie it's
there more than Henry hates - yeah
there's always it's rarely quiet and
when it's quiet it means to be quiet
it's if it's it's appointed quiet yeah
yeah it's a so it's unsettling in a way
where sometimes you you kind of forget
that it's there consciously but in your
brain somewhere you know it's there yeah
and then all of a sudden it starts
ratcheting up and the layers start
building and then everything's worse I
don't want to talk about some of the
more abstract visuals I mean the whole
title of the movie is this sort of thing
that happens in the middle that isn't
necessarily related to anything but
that's the part that loses me a bit yeah
I like that whole sequence but I'm kind
of like how does this tie in I don't
think it does it's just a little a
little digression it's just like this is
what happens to Henry's head after it
the baby knocks it off of his body sure
you know that I don't know if it I mean
that's the thing you can't know if it
actually relates because you're not
supposed to know but it's just it adds
to the general flavor of them of the
overall student yeah that's fine yeah
and the opening of the movie the first
five seven minutes or so the way I see
it it's the weirdest sex scene ever put
on film oh yeah I mean that's the that's
the impregnation of Mary
yes just like Henry's floating head does
firm comes out of his mouth drops into
like a crater on Mars or whatever the
fuck it's like that's what happens when
the man in the world pulls the levers
that's yeah and then the sperm goes
splat
into the puddle and that's your David
Lynch sex scene yeah but yeah and that's
and that's what that's what shoots us
into that world is you've got images
that are somewhat abstract but at least
you can still sort of pick up that's
what's happening before things get you
know normal and then really abstract
yeah it definitely makes sure you're
comfortable in the world before things
start getting real weird yeah which i
think is important because there's some
movies or it's it starts and you're like
what is this you know you need you need
the ease people in at least have a
character that you can understand even
if you don't understand necessarily
what's happening around him yes still
that that character to connect with yeah
and Henry's definitely the the everyman
yeah you just want to see him break free
even in his apartment he looks out the
window and it's just a brick wall boy
and yeah he's just so unsure at all
times and that I think is is an easily
relatable thing I mean if something
weird is happening in your life you know
most people don't necessarily know
exactly what to do right away if ever
okay and so you're kind of faced with
Wow and you got to take a while that's
basically the whole movie is Henry
trying to figure out what to do next
yeah everyone can can relate to being
stuck in a rut and if you're the kind of
person that thinks the idea of like
settling down and getting married and
having children sounds like a horrible
fucking nightmare and this movies for
you sir
