May 24, 2016
Tremors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PK7-tBuEoq4
https://www.redlettermedia.com/review/tremors-review
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/735102146069303297
https://archive.is/qr61y (soundcloud.com)

hello and welcome to review a new series
from red letter media I'm Mike and I'm J
I'm Mike still it's still okay that's a
really clever title for a show by the
way who came up with that I did it
wasn't rich Evans nope
rogem ins wanted to call to show the
Kevin Smith our for some reason he also
wanted to call it on cinema yeah I think
that one's taken though I think so yeah
but anyway a lot of people asked for us
to talk about movies we like instead of
watching bad B movies or bitching about
new Hollywood films that suck and the
show is not intended to replace half in
the bag or the best of the worst
so before anyone starts typing that into
their YouTube comment fields there's
already 120 comments asking that you can
stop but really we're here today to talk
about one of our favorite movies of all
time tremors occasionally we may talk
about a movie that we hate you never
know or a good bad movie if it doesn't
belong on best of the worst where we
want to break it down a little more
thorough yeah and it's also meant to
highlight movies that you may or may not
have seen yes and so we're going to talk
about today weeks for example we're
gonna talk about tremors and if you
haven't seen it maybe this episode of
review will motivate you to go and buy
it or rent it or watch it rent it from
your local Blockbuster yep so Mike what
is so special about this Kevin Bacon
movie about worms under the ground that
eat people tremors is one of the most
awesomest movies ever made it is for
some reason and you can say like I don't
know it does hold up
absolutely ivory watched it it is it
holds up almost a hundred percent except
for one shot tremors is like it's like a
ghostbusters level film
where it achieves near perfection in
every aspect of it is ironic because the
name of the town in the movie is
perfection Nevada affection Nevada it's
like they knew yes it's a hokey monster
movie it's a it's a throwback kind of
monster movie but it is perfect in its
execution creativity screenplay sure the
screenplay is is is flawless and that's
what I think that's a big thing for me
because I'm a structure guy yeah and
there are other movies that I will enjoy
that are completely structureless and
and just weird but this this movie is is
perfect and I think that's what I really
like about it and we'll talk about what
the premises I love the creativity well
you mentioned that it's kind of hokey
hokey monster movie I would say what
makes it special is that it's not hokey
it's a hokey premise that's played not
serious because it's obviously a very
comedic movie but the the horror aspects
or the monster aspects are those are
played straight it's as the balance of
the humor and the the serious threat I
think is handled really well look these
creatures are absolutely unprecedented
yeah but where do they come from they're
there it's like it has the Ghostbusters
tone where there's a serious threat and
there's humor but it's very dry and
everything is it's not like there's no
ghost that throws up ectoplasm all over
someone's face and they go no it got in
my butt crack and Oh Mike I didn't know
you hate women
what well what's the premise well the
premise is it takes place in almost the
middle of nowhere perfection Nevada
population 14 right it's 14 I believe 14
it's a tiny little is not even a town
it's like three buildings there's a
trailer there's uh yeah one house and
Changsha convenience convenience store
and this town has to deal with monsters
these giant underground worms with
little snake monsters for tongues and
then just having to deal with this
monster crisis
lowly how they band together as a town
to deal with it that's one of the things
I like - is that people always think of
this movie is like Kevin Bacon's in it
but it really is an ensemble mm-hmm it
is about this whole town and they're all
really well fleshed out and really
distinct characters unless that's one of
the the screenplay elements that I
absolutely love is is how well it's
structured and in screenplay terms your
first ten minutes are very important
they're the ten minutes ten pages are
what hooks you win we get introduced to
- Val and Earl Fred Ward and Kevin Bacon
and their jumpers Gordon who Kevin Bacon
and Kevin Bacon yes yes and ironically
throughout the entire film there is a
group of tremors under the ground that
keep following him oh I get it
no you shouldn't and very early on it's
established they've the case with a not
gays
world-class breasts ass that won't quit
and legs that go out all the way up
they run into a female college student
who's a student of seismology who's
maintaining the equipment that read the
tremors under the ground
aka love interest great and then
throughout the first 10 minutes of the
film we are introduced to almost every
major character Burt Gummer played by
Michael Gross the dad from family ties
Reba McEntire the little girl from
Jurassic Park and her mom little girl
from Jurassic Park bounces around on a
pogo stick sure my mom is played by
Charlotte Stewart who's a David Lynch
regular Oh guys Mary X and Eraserhead
all right that's right like that's it
lots of good character actors in this
yes and there's Chang yeah who is played
by the actor that's been in multiple
John Carpenter movies he was egg Shen
and Big Trouble in Little China but
really like there's a lot of little
things that get set up I didn't change
soda refrigerator like when it goes
through it's a refrigeration cycle and
it makes all that noise I think they set
that up oh yeah but basically the
10-minute mark is when they decide to
leave Valinor will decide to leave
perfection they say screw it after a
septic tank hose breaks and scripts poop
in their face and they say fuck this
we're out of here and then then they
start encountering signs of the tremors
Hey that's it your deeds
you mean he set up there three or four
days he set up there just died of thirst
and it's it follows the the jaws formula
of Jaws did it just because they
couldn't get their mechanical shark to
work but that was so the movies
advantage where we just don't see much
of the much of the monsters and when you
first do it's a little sneak thing yeah
oh I guess that's it and then turns out
it's attached to a much larger creature
stakes raised we have gigantic
underground worms that are killing
people and that of course leads to the
discovery the best thing of all in the
film is that and which is where the
clever premise comes in it's not just
monsters eating people right it's
they're just animals that are hunting
but they hunt by but by vibrations yeah
then you walk on the ground or something
that's how they get you and I always
love a movie where there's a group of
people that are trapped in a situation
they have to figure their way out and I
have to do smart things or they may do
dumb things that get them into worse
trouble but I always love that kind of
movie where instead of just like
shooting guns or whatever killing we
have to kill it they have they they do
it cleverly yeah one of the most
horrifying scenes in the movie is when
Cheng gets eaten and but yeah that says
that's the moment where everything
changes and they're like oh thing
changes changes this is a serious
fucking problem we have and that leads
into the middle 20 minute action
sequence of the movie that's just the
best thing ever the scene in the in the
Chang's market they all get up to the
roof the girls I'm at first she she's on
top of the shelves oh yeah tremors are
pushing the shelves over it's just great
and then like it has the Jaws logic
where we don't see the monster you save
money by not seeing the monster by just
doing smoke shaking the houses but still
has the same effect you know they're
down there and that's almost airier more
effective yeah yeah it works better
leaves more to your imagination yeah and
and throughout the film they just keep
getting smarter and smarter yeah and
yeah and that's another thing they
establish and they learn quickly they
learn very quickly and soon they're
going to pull the houses out from under
them a constantly escalating threats yes
a constantly escalating threat which is
countered by constantly escalating ways
to deal with the threat and coming up
with ideas and solutions yeah and that's
really the entertaining part that's the
great thing too is that now we have
these these well-defined characters that
are in this well-defined situation and
we're rooting for them and they have to
come up with more increasingly clever
ways to get out of it except for one of
the best scenes in motion picture
history oh you're talking about the one
that intentionally goes the complete
opposite direction and just has them
shooting yeah
Burt Gummer and his wife live there like
survivalists doomsday prepper kind of
people and they have guns and all that
kind of stuff and the creatures go and
bust one of the creatures busts through
into their bunker into the basement
there's one shot that made me laugh out
loud
upon my most recent viewing is they
start shooting at it and the camera goes
like this and pans over a great comedy
shot reveals an entire wall of gun
laughed out loud and it's it's the most
amazing scene a perfect mixture of
miniatures and live action this is like
the best movies with lots of visual
effects especially like creature movies
or fantasy movies it's the every trick
in the book type movie
the most amazing thing was I think the
shootout in the basement because they
had most of the head enough to swallow
Chang and all that but they didn't have
the entire creature the thing busts
through the basement wall the cinder
blocks full-scale a couple shots later
miniature because it needed to go up and
smash through the ceiling yeah but it's
the comment that editing of it and the
the way you know the the choice of shots
that really blends it all together
there's except for the one but mixed in
with that is one of the most brilliant
live-action to miniature shots ever live
action shot life-size gun miniature gun
and there's a couple of shell casings on
the floor too well that states a flu and
wrong in it well yeah you have to have
that fluid so it's it's like amazing
like just a simplest little trick like
that
it's a shame they have that one
composite shot yeah did evil they needed
to like connect the two more but
probably the opposite of that the the
that whip pan move was was beautiful and
that connected it and better than the
clunky green screen shot one other thing
I noticed on a recent review of this
room sound and editing something that I
didn't notice as a young person watching
it but now I do as as a 58 year old man
is watching it and going puppets that's
really well-constructed the way that
they did all this because I noticed one
thing like you'll have a scene then the
scene will kind of end and it'll end
quietly I mean what the hell is going on
then the next scene will start with some
kind of loud noise because obviously the
film's about don't make noise on the
ground yes so Kevin Bacon Fred Ward go
to find the doctor and of course the
previous scene the doctor gets sucked
into the ground
the wife climbs in the station wagon
station wagon gets sucked in the ground
they go there and it's quiet and they
have Kevin Bacon accidentally kick over
a bucket and then Fred word goes up and
he walks down this like ramp so they had
them do actions in the scene instead of
just walking out going doctor yeah
doctor they had Kevin Bacon kick over a
bucket and they had a Fred Ward walk
down a ramp just little touches like
that and I'm noticing like there are a
lot of little moments in the movie like
that before they know they can't make
noise where they're unknowingly making
noise when they don't really need to
even when you're not really thinking
about it we're not a regular scene going
on yeah yeah that's the the cleverness
of the filmmaking there's also a lot of
cleverness in the the script there's
tons of setup and payoff and not in a
wake which can go bad sometimes when
it's obvious because then it just
becomes predictable but this is like
it's they set up things just you know
subtle enough yeah everything is
everything set up
turn it off
I got it
but yeah I would be very proud if I was
the guy or guys that created tremors and
the concept of it originally was land
sharks oh that was a Saturday Night Live
sketch that's why they stopped okay the
guy the guy who was a writer ritual bit
and stuff and which was smart his land
shark sounds terrible yes but the the
tremors concept is and then that's
another thing that's great about the
movie too is at least the first one I
don't know what they get into the
sequels
but basically they hypothesize that the
tremor creature the graboid whatever you
want to call it is some kind of dinosaur
or ancient creature yeah that's just
been out there in the desert eating
little creatures and never been
discovered by man because it's so remote
yeah
they don't say it came from space yeah
and say well characters theorized that
it's right I still say it's from space
sure it's about it they're like you know
rednecks almost yeah yeah but you know
the girls looking at its fins and it has
um it is sort of like a EXO EXO armor
like um exoskeleton nose yeah it has
like sharp skeletal nose so they can dig
through the ground it's like instead of
just a stupid monster it's very
biologically sound the design of it has
little fins and the nose and stuff that
make it seem like it could be a real
creature and that's part of the fun too
is that some alien it's out of
demonstrates it's a biological creature
that doesn't have any kind of motivation
other than just it wants to eat but
anyway check out tremors that's our
that's our spotlight film for today you
could skip all the sequels except for
maybe the fourth one Jay likes parts of
the side I think they all have positive
elements not the fifth one this one's
horrible
and the third one the only good thing
about the third one is that it brings a
lot of those characters back hmm and
that's interesting like the first one
the third and fourth one like they seem
to really emphasize characters first
and then the monster adventure stuff
kind of seconds they seem to really like
their characters which is good but they
say there's nothing new Under the Sun
but under the ground I thought I thought
as a die-hard tremors fan you would know
what to say
I know why happens in the movie I don't
know what happens on the goddamn poster
to save it under the ground dot dot dot
yeah like that Lipsey's so what do they
mean I need a nap it's time to end our show
