Jul 22, 2016
Mad Max 2: The Road Warrior
youtube.com/watch?v=bYLk6nMB23o
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/756667249927163904
soundcloud.com/redlettermedia/road-warrior-review-extended-audio-untitled-mp3
redlettermedia.com/mad-max-2-the-road-warrior-review

so rich before we start this new episode
of our hit television series review I
think we need to address a very
important issue in regards to our Ghost
Busters review a lot of people were very
upset that we would imply that other
youtubers are pricks even though it was
a very obvious joke people are very
upset at you well I am a prick
I think that you need to apologize to
everybody because this is serious
business we can make fun of 911 all we
want we can make fun of an innocent
woman just trying to teach children the
alphabet with the cow puppet but heaven
forbid
we've jokingly refer to anyone else on
YouTube as a prick that is apparently
where the line is drawn wait but they're
pricks
all those people we talked about and
these other ones too yeah they're all
pricks well yeah sure sure but we can't
say that on camera so we'll cut this
part out and he'll he's a really big
prick oh that one yeah we can both agree
on that
absolutely absolutely pricks but one
person that no one will be upset about
if we call him a prick is Mel Gibson da
Gibson is a prick is that ever gonna go
away
nope he's he's just a prick forever now
a prick for life Wow like Caitlyn Jenner
could like murder somebody with her car
and she's a hero he didn't kill anyone
with his car but he is a prick Matthew
Broderick killed somebody with a car
yeah why don't people talk about that
more I think what I'm saying is if Mel
Gibson ever wants to be accepted in
society again he needs to run somebody
done with a car that's good advice it's
firmly not a Jew though
well hello and welcome to review this
time it's me and rich Evans oh my god
and we're going to be discussing the
road warrior aka Mad Max 2 as I think
it's known everywhere on the world
except for the US am i alone I'm
thinking just just the road warrior
alone is a cooler title it is and it was
just called that because most American
audiences had no idea what the fuck man
max was it didn't get a wide release
here I didn't know what the fuck Mad Max
was I think I got eyes people grew up on
the road warrior without youngly knowing
Mad Max well they used to show it on
like HBO like three times a goddamn week
I should and little six-year-old me is
watching and loving that movie every
goddamn time my hairdo and I was in the
the video store one day and nothing my
uncle pointed out that you know Mad Max
was there and that was that was the
first one that that World War II was a
sequel I had no idea and she watched the
first one you said this is boring that's
exactly what happened yeah
the first one no well we should say
right up front it's unanimous that the
road warrior up until a couple years ago
was universally considered the best Mad
Max movie literally everyone on the
planet says so yes there's not a single
person that could possibly say the first
or third one is the best Mad Max movie
but now there's some debate about which
is the best bad max movie because fury
road came out and it blew everybody what
he rewrote is amazing
the road is amazing I wanted to talk
about the road warrior because I had
this I had this thought the other day
I'm like well watching like a chunk of
fury road I was thinking does this does
this make the road warrior obsolete
I rewatched it the road warrior in
preparation for this discussion and the
answer is yes it's a great movie but
everything that the road warrior does
that's great
fury road doesn't better er yes still an
awesome movie and that's the frustrating
part cuz it's like this is great but
it's not fury road here's here's what
the road warrior has going forward
though that I think might redeem it
everything in fury road is beautiful yes
fury road manages to to glorify
everything that happens it's a dreamlike
and every frame is like a goddamn
painting blues and oranges are just used
spectacularly and what the road warrior
is it's very like gritty in comparison
it's almost got like a realistic film it
doesn't draw attention to the brutality
yeah it's just brutal yeah which is
weird to say because before
fury road I think most people would say
road warrior is pretty silly yeah all
the Mad Max movies are silly but in
comparison now it feels a lot more
grounded and real which is a positive I
also think it's if you're just looking
for a straight-ahead streamlined action
movie without any you know any
flourishes of artistry I shouldn't say
artistry but without any of the the
flourishes that fury road has that's the
road warrior yeah it's very
straightforward it's about I also I was
Winry watching it I was thinking of army
of Darkness where a guy shows up in this
little village it doesn't want have
anything to do with anything he wants to
get out of there for completely selfish
reasons and then once he starts to care
he becomes slightly less interesting as
a character the exacts I think that
happened with Ash and army of Darkness
it's still a great movie but once he
starts to care because it almost feels
like a subversion of the typical action
hero up until that point he just wants
gas
League cares though kind of does he
comes back you know he comes back
because he gets blowed up
he gets dragged back
I suppose he seems to have a little bit
more of an investment in helping these
people out though at that point because
there's the scene where the guys like
you don't care about anything and you're
stuck you doubt living off the scraps of
the old world and then there's a little
bit of a shift in max at that point but
he still punched him in the face it
takes off in his car that's true
foolishly arguably foolishly he gets to
this car he drives straight through like
the bad guy encampment it's like that
he's a giver fuck he doesn't give a fuck
I'd argue he assumes his cars going to
outrun them because that car it's just
an awesome car it is it is that is
probably my favorite movie car and like
I watched that movie like when I was a
kid like over and over and over it every
time that car gets totaled my heart
broke a little bit more did it really
break your heart at the beginning of
fury road when it just gets busted up
immediately yes it did
well for anyone that maybe has seen fury
road and has not seen the road warrior
we kind of skipped over what the actual
movie is about what is the plot of the
road warrior doesn't take long to
explain
it's about being dead no no here i hear
me out hear me out I actually have a
theory on this the Mad Max trilogy mmm
the first one's about dying
sure civilization there's civilization
in the first one but it's clearly on the
decline yes Mad Max is he's trying to be
a cop he's trying to have the family
life but the decline eventually it needs
to almaty he has the fall at the end so
first one dying the road warrior is all
about fucking wallowing in misery mm-hmm
like there are there are greens in the
first movie the second one there's a
real good reason for it because contrary
to popular belief it's not a nuclear
apocalypse right it's just an oil crisis
there's no oil in society fell apart
because of that but the entire world is
like a deserted desert wasteland for a
particularly good reason other than just
the matically it works and and max
doesn't care about anything but himself
most of the movie and the world is just
completely brutal and heartless and
humanity has just evolved into savage
animals
yeah save it I'm just here for the
gasoline which is another theme that is
kind of in there you have the feral kid
oh yeah who's like a dog boy
and then you get to the third one Beyond
Thunderdome and things are things are
getting better some kind of civilization
is forming out of the decayed body and
Max has some kind of redemption and he
regains some humanity so there's a
there's like an arc through all three
films thematically and with Max's
character sure and then how does fury
road fit into that it's different beast
it's just a completely different though
yeah yeah one thing I like more than
fury road is that the the narrator is
not max all it remains a memories I
remember a time of chaos ruin dreams
this wasted land but most of all I
remember the road warrior max has a
voiceover at the beginning a fury road
and I like that he is it's why I don't
like the first Mad Max quite as much as
that I like max is sort of this weird
folk hero that just stories about it
about him has been kind of passed down
yeah and he cuz that's another thing
people complain about fury road like Oh
max isn't even lead it's all about fury
euro so that's that's how it was done
maybe have you seen another Mad Max and
that's the Mad Max the first movie it's
almost like Batman Begins where it's
like we're seeing everything you know
being set up we're seeing how he becomes
the character he becomes but that's not
nearly as interesting as the Dark Knight
you know get that shit out of the way he
works better as this like folk hero yeah
yeah as I kind of kind of character
rather than a human being
I'm like Mac max himself you're talking
about his character I mean he's he's
just an interesting loner drifter that
you can view this fucked-up world from
right yeah he's your vessel into this
world the star of the movie is the world
more so than it is max he's how you how
you get to that place how you get to
this town full of people that have gas
and well the people the fucked up bikers
oh sure
that appeared in like every movie after
that yeah the road war are not thrown I
guess you could say Mad Max too but also
the first two Mad Max movies along with
escape for me
you're responsible for so many italian
ripoffs we watched one on best of the
worst raters of Atlanta's but there's so
many more fuckin weird science has Mad
Max bikers at it yeah one of the actual
Vernon Wells one of the actual guys I
found that out this afternoon is like oh
my god that is the same guy the same guy
it's the the red way which was pretty
sure his name is well the character's
name yeah I do like and it's never
really commented on but that character
seems to have his own like twink S&M;
boyfriend it's not really commented on
but that's pretty progressive for the
early eighties free radical for a movie
made of that time because he looks
really upset when that little twink guy
gets the the boomerang in the face his
his his S&M; buddy that's on the
motorcycle behind him throughout the
whole film until that point yeah yeah
behind him on his ass loose chaps it
clearly if they want women in this
universe they just they just grab them
you know it makes it work - it's not
it's not done as an excuse to speak
Tignes into the movie right it's just
it's very key like disturbingly casually
done Mexico he's just he kind of just
sees it through a periscope and it's
kind of taking place in like the bottom
left-hand corner yeah right it doesn't
affect him to the point where when max
goes down there the girls have been
killed the guy is leaning up against the
car that was also attacked he's like
thank you for saving us thank you that
Max is just like I just want some
fucking games man like that's the world
of this movie it hammers home how how
far the world has fallen in the universe
of Mad Max yeah I am gravely
disappointed again JD unleash my total I
learned humongous we have anything to
say about Lord humungus I learned
humongous is great visually uh in Moton
Joe is a much more interesting villain
yes that's what I would say about road
warrior is it's it's very like I said
very straight forward as far as an
action movie these are the bad guys
these are the good guys and there's not
a whole lot more layers to that I do
like how he's fairly well spoken though
I mean he look out yeah he looks like
this fucked up bodybuilding SNM kind of
psychopath
yeah but he's he's fairly articulate
sigh I beg you to just walk away and
this can all be put aside it's not like
we're going to kill all of you which is
he's well spoken about what he wants he
just wants the gas yeah
except for maybe the first Mad Max they
all have a slight sort of fairytale in
the post apocalypse feel to them mhm and
fury road has it the most with like the
you know the evil leader up on his
castle and all the peasants down below
but this one gets you into that world to
that fairytale feel with the the
voiceover like we met this man once and
and then we never saw him again and all
that stuff but this one yeah it's it
feels grounded but it still has those
fairytale aspects to it yeah yeah I said
what's that ending chase scene and road
warrior was that how long was it before
that scene was topped as far as just
scale if it wasn't topped until if you
rewrote this is that is that what we're
gonna say well fury road is is because
people it's funny people used to
describe the road warrior it's just one
long chase and it really isn't there's a
lot of build-up to it there's a whole
lot and there's a couple action scenes
early on but there's a lot of just
establishing the world and establishing
the situation fury road is almost
non-stop one long chase it's yes it's
really clearly what George Miller has
always had in his mind that he wanted to
do and before before fury road the
closest he got I think was the road
warrior it's it's it's the blueprint
because you can tell he wanted that
wordless storytelling in a road warrior
max has I believe it's sixteen lines in
the whole film is that it it's only I
think people complained about with euro
like he's it's called Mad Max but Mad
Max never talks I've never seen a Mad
Max movie before all this all the people
in fear who came out who had never seen
a Mad Max film complaining that fury
road wasn't about Max is the strangest
fucking thing yeah um
they gotta find something to complain
about it just gets involved in somebody
else's problem now exactly like what
happens in the road warrior he doesn't
have any personal stakes in the film
exactly like what happens in the road
warrior
it's a hard movie to talk about without
just saying everything is awesome I like
it there in the end chase when there's
the two guys that are strapped to the
front of the cars and they have the
burlap sacks over their heads that fly
up just in time for them to see how
they're going to die that's immediately
their head squash like like melons and
it's also got the most impressive stunts
in the world which was a complete nearly
fatal accident it was the crash and the
guy though the stunt man he was just
supposed to fly off frame but instead
his feet get hooked on like the top of
the car something and he does this this
pinwheel and I heard he nearly died yeah
he broke his leg in like eight places or
something really fucked up yeah you see
in the movie and you can't plan that
like I can't imagine anyone was
expecting that to happen they left it in
but why the fuck wouldn't do is the
feral kid great or annoying or both both
okay both it can be both III love the
idea that just the generation that's
growing up after the apocalypse are
basically just savage animals yeah
that's that's kind of a fun detail his
miss barking does get a little bit
obnoxious barking it's annoying but it's
a useful character like a lot of movies
with little kids in them the kids are
obnoxious and they just don't serve any
purpose but the kid he's sneaking
through little tunnels and cutting off
fingers and it's great
have you have you heard people
theorizing that that kid is max in the
new movie in fury road I think I heard
something about that I don't care okay I
don't I don't give much credit to it no
what would be the point and having to be
the feral kid other than just as a fan
theory well it gets to keep it in
continuity none of those movies care
about continuity they have the the
gyroplane pilot in Beyond Thunderdome is
a completely different character
continuity does not matter in these
movies they're connected thematically
and the fact that max is played by Mel
Gibson and that's pretty much a Bruce
Spence
who I heard when he filmed the the road
warrior had just gotten out of the
hospital which is partly why he's so
fucking thin oh really
yeah yeah supposedly he could barely
like jump out of the sand did he have
trouble lifting up the snakes we had to
throw them from his general plane
roughly that's another like weird little
detail that's like all the weirdness in
these movies but yeah gyroplane he's
just throwing snakes down on people
effective it would be it worked really
well I'd be freaked out of somebody
threw a snake on me from the sky I think
there would be a moment of confusion
first like what the fuck
my question about that ending when the
tanker falls over and the sand starts
pouring out and you realize that you
know the gas was never in there to begin
with
max kind of hasn't looked like he didn't
know about that I don't think he does
which is great that our hero was
completely oblivious to the plan that
wasn't even his idea the entire time
they directly stated but he has that
look like yeah like oh well they didn't
trust him it's it's almost a double
cross yeah no the casualness to which
which our good guys die at the end of
that film yeah almost immediately they
start dying
even he like like the the warrior woman
I mean it's not a glorious death no she
doesn't go out like I'm gonna take you
with me it's just like they explode and
take out bad guys with her she just gets
shot and slumps over yeah
and for like the next five minutes her
body's just hanging off the back of the
truck and that's something and I guess
that's a positive over fury road too is
that everything's a little more
heightened fury road everything's a
little more dramatic cinematically and I
like the bluntness of everything in in
road warriors yeah like the engineer he
just he's falls off the back of the
truck and get sucked under a wheel
somewhere in the back of the frame yeah
so if you had to pick one as far as a
better movie road warrior or furia I
have to go fury road it's such a shame
isn't it like I mean it's not it's like
an embarrassment of riches but the idea
that it's like as awesome as the road
warrior is fury road boom
takes everything up a few more a few
notches when I was young road warrior
was like one of my all-time favorites
that was that was right up there and I
have to say it's it's it's kind of been
replaced at Lee's buried a bit yeah
under fury road that's a good thing
ultimately because three roads a
relatively recent movie and that means
the Hollywood can still make a film I
love that's true which up until fury
road came out I thought that was
something that was never going to happen
again yeah fury road is like a little
miracle the fact that I mean especially
when you know about the history of it
and how much trouble he had getting it
made and then it finally comes out and
he's George Miller's in like a 70s and
he made an action movie that puts you
know people half his age to shame thank
you thank you George Miller thank you
George Miller I know you've talked about
making another one you don't have to you
really don't have enriched my life
enough as originally said he's not going
to there's talk of doing like a
standalone furiosa movie and I don't
think that's happening now I don't know
yeah you can just you can retire you can
be like max at the end of road warrior
and we never saw him again
I don't care with that I can walk off
into the sunset
