Nov 9, 2016
Land of the Dead and the Social Commentary of George Romero
youtube.com/watch?v=fOhGxeQkj8g
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/796498309703757824
redlettermedia.com/land-of-the-dead-and-the-social-commentary-of-george-romero-review-extras

by hello Jay hello Mike I see you're
wearing your Freddy Krueger sweater who
the guy from that 2010 film A Nightmare
on Elm Street
oh the movie where he's a pedophile and
the whole movie is about him being a
pedophile that's what I wanted my fun
fantasy horror I think of like Freddy
Krueger riding the broomstick and
Freddy's dead it's like oh now he's
overtly a pedophile like that's great
that's fun
well after Dawn of the Dead and Day of
the Dead again George Romero vanished
and surfaced to make the classic film
Land of the Dead one of the worst films
ever made
yeah I wouldn't go that far but it'sit's
ironically the only way he'd get it made
was after the success of the Dawn of the
Dead remake zombies are big again
so let's get the guy who made those old
zombie movies oh this is what he made
there's elements of land of the dead
that I like I have to say I love the
concept yeah
the fortified city he didn't build that
place he just took it over got the best
for himself and left us with a slum to
live in the the rich people because
money is still a thing the rich people
live at the top of the tower and it it's
just sort of about them kind of trying
to ignore the problem and pretend that
life is normal and fine but down below
that's where shit's going bad it could
have been a really brilliant commentary
on like classism that's what he was
going for yeah it's so like he's hitting
you over the head with it you're worried
about being locked out and I see that I
can't help to think wrong locked in and
just in a story level it doesn't make
sense the idea that the end of the movie
you've got Dennis Hopper shoving bags
full of money and it's like money is
useless they have one line in Dawn of
the Dead that that is more brilliant
than anything in land of the dead you
never know like he kind of knows that
right now this is useless but you never
know maybe that's a more clever way of
dealing with that the idea of money and
where's societies going than anything in
light of the dead well they do they do
use money and land of the dead in their
in their bubble of society where they
make those ends the rich people are
walking around in like fur coats and
shopping and little shopping area it's a
bigger scale than dawn or day where it's
like you have this giant this giant
tower and all these people live in it
and classism and their separation would
start to occur where there would be
people that run the show and there would
be people that have to go out and take
out the garbage and and clean up zombies
and gather supplies there would be there
would be some sort of functioning there
would be some sort of functional order
that occurs chair I always compare it to
Titanic the just not the movie but the
idea that there are first-class
second-class third-class passengers
and then but when Titanic hits the
iceberg you know all bets are off like
I'm sure the first-class passengers got
priority to get on the boats but then
third-class passengers also survived it
just became a thing where once shit hits
the fan everyone's just the person yeah
and the classism evaporates and everyone
just has to survive it should have been
that where it was like yeah you have the
people on the top and the bottom but
once Dom B's get into that building
everyone just is a person and that all
breaks down I really can't comment too
much on land because I only watched it
once now all I remember was the the
really really offensive yes Massah oh we
have a butler character mr. Coughlin
isn't home and I heard like I think he's
going for some sorta yeah I guess he's
going for some sort of yes satire but it
was so poorly executed yes that very
very poorly executed that and then the
counterpoint of that of the rich people
in fur coats shopping and buying like
diamonds and stuff like how delusional
it was it was very cartoony yeah where
someone could be so delusional to where
they're buying like fancy jewelry in the
middle of the whole world being
destroyed yeah
well Joe I think what happened is
somewhere between the original three
movies but by the time you got around to
doing land of the dead someone told
George Romero hey your movies have
social commentary in that right and so
he thought that that was something he
needed to make more overt because he
said with night a Living Dead the
interesting thing about the first three
and I would include landed the dead in
this - actually the first four is that
they're very representative of the
decade they were made which is
interesting and unique for a series of
movies and the first one is you know
it's the 60s and it's sort of radical to
have the main protagonist of the movie
be a black man but George Romero was
said the reason he's a black man is
because Dwayne Jones was the best actor
that he could find for the part so and
it was sort of after the fact that
people said like oh that was the radical
and then it kind of gives another layer
to the ending all right man hit him in
the head right between the eyes when
you've seen like the photographs and
he's been shot and he's being thrown on
a bonfire and is this like yeah the
civil rights are yeah that era and then
the 70s of course zombies and malt
consumers and it's the boom of consumers
yeah we're all we're all zombies
wandering around the mall but that it's
vague enough where it's like you don't
need the social commentary for that
story to work well it's just an element
- it's an element Land of the Dead is
just like shoving it in your face in a
way that's not clever at all we don't
negotiate with terrorists yeah and you
have those shots and Dawn of the Dead of
the zombies like doing there yeah thing
and then the cuts to the mannequins and
intercuts back and forth and we're like
okay got it that's that's pretty nice
and then uh I guess you could say Day of
the Dead is is very um the 80s it's a
sort of about giving up giving up on any
sort of respect for authority and uh
yeah leadership I'm short on manpower I
won't have you going around to open up
any of my men without orders from me is
that clear yes maybe maybe maybe Cold
War tensions there's a lot of war war
Reaganomics
80s that's sort of like enter political
tensions that occurred during the 80s
look major Cooper prominent you're
Cooper is dead I'm in command now the
70s was was was a time of excess cocaine
and shopping the 80s was Gorbachev and
Reagan and then yeah land land is very
Bush these demands are not open to
negotiation we don't negotiate with
terrorists yes yes that that kind of the
early 2000s I think is when that movie
was made but which makes it more
interesting as
a hole and as a specific movie I like
that about and then diary the dad was
like oh people are giving me money to
make zombie movies again I'm gonna rush
out another one right away the found
footage like that cameraman from channel
10 he wanted to upload it so that people
you could be told the truth
the phone was shot with a Panasonic HD X
900 and an HB X 200 I did the final cut
on Jason's laptop I've added music
occasionally for effect
hoping to scare you you see in addition
to trying to tell you the truth I am
hoping to scare you so that maybe you'll
wake up know something whatever and it's
like the worst thing ever oh he's dead
that's ramen Jesus a nurse dead doctor
dead nurse makes sense doesn't I could
just I could just picture George Romero
with his Harry Caray glasses on what's a
big thing now internets yeah look 72,000
hits in eight minutes
everyone's got a chat room no no no no
no no George Shelley
I was 1995 they don't go in the chat
room what's a tweet no George can a
zombie be a tweet ah what excuse me I
have to take my medication 72,000 hits
they're coming in from all over the
world they're not getting the truth from
anybody else all that shit on the news
is a pack of lies 72,000 hits and eight
minutes it's unbelievable
congratulations you're famous that's not
what it's about
would you rather have people not knowing
what's going on in the world friend
requests about it zombie requests that's
what that's what diary the dead feels
like is a movie as a movie made by
someone trying to comment on sort of the
media and new media that has no
understanding of what he's talking about
this was completely out of touch which
is why I actually kind of liked survival
of the Dead the one he did after that
because it's basically just a Western
with zombies there's no sort of
in your face message
it's not a great movie but out of those
new three it's the best one and gave up
on the message yes yeah I mean you could
say that something about it's like just
two people two groups of people that
don't get along so just like as you no
buts about it it's nothing more overt
than that it's a comment on the
israeli-palestinian conflict sure any
sort of conflict and that's the thing
it's not like specific anything it's
just two different groups of people that
can't get along with their ideals today
I'm okay most people seem to think it's
the worst one but not in a world or
diary the debt exists don't mess with
Texas
anyways so we we have talked today
extensively about zombies because it's
that time of year Halloween and I know
you're gonna say because it's election
season Oh
