Sep 02, 2016
The Blair Witch Project
youtube.com/watch?v=nCjbevNlLXE
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/771752278394941440
soundcloud.com/redlettermedia/the-blair-witch-project-review-extended-untitled-mp3
redlettermedia.com/the-blair-witch-project-review

today on rewind a review or whatever
this is called
we're going to be talking about the
original film that kicked it all off I'm
talking about 1999's
The Phantom Menace a truly scary
horrific film that will give you
nightmares well Jay let's talk about the
Blair Witch Project which you've seen
thirty-eight times I rewatched yesterday
I saw it in the theater so yesterday was
the first time you've seen it since the
theater yes you're the proponent of
making a review episode about it
especially since well we got the new one
coming out yeah which is very clearly a
soft reboot it's a sequel it you know
it's the brother of the Heather
character from the first movie going off
to search for her so it pleases people
like me and hopefully brings a new
people let's say I've heard a Blair
Witch
that's that movie that my dad tells me
is boring but let us not forget there
was a sequel to the Blair Witch Project
which came out 48 hours later yes they
slap that shit together the Blair Witch
Project two coven of witches but it's
called Book of Shadows : Blair Witch -
oh but there's no Book of Shadows in the
movie so they just gave him a bunch of
money to put licensed the title though
shot already in no no it actually it's
ambitious as far as sequels go because
it's it's not a traditional sequel the
easy thing to do would have been just
make another found-footage thing a bunch
of kids out in the woods again but it's
a movie about the blurring lines between
movie and reality that kind of came
about with the first movie so it's a
movie about the reaction to the first
movie which is an interesting idea but
it's a bad movie anyway it's got bad
acting as not scary
I saw it in the theater and although
there's all the hoopla surrounding it
and like that's a real thing but what no
it's not a real thing I didn't see the
online advertising the whole like
marketing campaign I know that was a big
aspect of the movies viral marketing if
I was created it yeah and so I was like
what's this they found footage in a year
after these people were killed in the
woods in it I'm Llanelli them no I knew
better and I watched it and I'm like and
it's a little fake something's wrong
there that's not right and this isn't
real oh that's a scary part and then I
was like oh that's it and then I moved
on with my wife again and I I I can
respect the the the ingenuity of the the
format yeah how they how they made uh I
don't know I'm sure there was some kind
of found footage movie or idea that
pre-existed blur which there is and we
have to acknowledge that before the
actually people show up if you say Blair
Witch Project made found-footage popular
there's the actually there's the go
there's Cannibal Holocaust mmm there's
the left broadcast I had to make sure
that you knew that I knew that okay so
we got that out of the way those are
movies that exist we know there are
other movies that existed but as far as
the mainstreaming it into the horror
genre I I think it was no variance and
that's why I was super excited to see it
I had heard about it months and months
and months earlier because I played at
Sundance and kind of made a you know a
big deal there and so I was like reading
about it and hearing about it for months
and I was like we got to go see this
movie I got a big group of friends like
a dozen of us when opening night and as
before I knew it was gonna blow up the
way it did and then half of them left
completely bored and different and a
couple of us thought it was really great
like you look at all those other
found-footage movies and they look like
traditional movies just done in a kind
of first-person POV style
they've got clean audio they sound like
a movie live special effects they all
have the the ghosts with the faces the
mouths that drop open really wide
they'll go and so I think people have
been conditioned to think of that as
being like what I found footage movie is
and then you look at the Blair Witch
projects and it's like oh no there's a
pile of rocks and then that's the movie
yeah they they took time making it
believable found-footage movies now
always have that one nagging question is
why are they still filming yeah
like any in in certain situations any
rational person would just put their
camera down and run for their fucking
lives in the Blair Witch Project it's
it's like these are film students the
girl is the one in charge and she's a
documentarian and documentarians are
always trying to run their cameras right
and and it's setup that they're like
okay we're interviewing people or doing
this we're making a movie about what
we're investigating and then there's
there's a couple of lines thrown in here
and they're like just when you start to
question like why are they still filming
there's a there's some part where one of
the guys I don't know if it was Mike or
rad Carlos Josh Josh kind of grabs the
kid yell his name 50 times in the movie
how could you forget
you see where you'd like this video
camera so much it's not quite reality
now that it's totally like a filtered
reality man I see why you keep shooting
with this it's like looking through a
prism of reality you know like okay it's
one of those lines - because I like that
part because yeah it gives a little bit
of a excuse but it's also sort of
pretentious but that's okay because
these are pretentious film students yeah
especially heathered yet no one in the
town seems to recall anything unusual
about this time to us anyway yet legend
tells a different story
one whose evidence is all around us
touched in stone the reason I think this
movie feels more authentic than a lot of
them is because so much of it to a
certain extent was real they were
camping overnight in these woods it
wasn't like oh we're gonna shoot these
scenes and it'll go back to you know our
hotel room or whatever they were camping
out overnight and they the whole thing
is improvised well what what is the
story behind it then because I don't
know like they're the did they just give
them cameras and say and the director is
like fucking around with them in the
woods basically yeah okay they would
leave from what I understand they would
the directors would leave yeah they kind
of keep an eye on them from a distance
and the woods and then overnight while
they're sleeping or whatever they would
fuck with them you know they had boom
boxes so when you hear like little
children laughing those are voices on a
boom box
like it's so low-tech
but then the next morning they would
have little envelopes for each of the
actors saying like here's kind of where
your character is at here's what we want
you to do today and then everything else
was basically up to them so the framing
of the shots the way the movie looks the
the dialogue two layers of space over
here and one of them was kind of like
one of them could have possibly been an
Al but the other one was like a cackling
it was a it was an original inventive
way to make a movie yeah especially with
no money yeah and that's another thing
as some people complain about the fact
that you don't see anything and that's
like the best aspect of it I completely
understand that that point of view and
that that idea that's something that is
not seen can be scarier than just like
bad monster bad the long mouth ghosts I
think I think some of the I think some
of the angle with with Blair which might
be in the backstory and and not giving
me enough information because it's so so
disjointed in terms of editing it's like
yeah it spent a little too much time
like in the the first 10 minutes or so
is is the first part of the movie when
they they're they're on their way
stopping at hotels driving interviewing
people on the street the only two that
didn't feel authentic were the guys that
were fly-fishing I thought the old guy
was good the younger guy he feels like
like local theater actors yeah but but
you know what as far as the performances
in the movie and not like sticking out
as phony they did a very good job but it
was like she's talking about the legend
and did you know about the Blair Witch
oh yeah I heard about it of the Blair
Witch and I never really got a good
sense of what it was and then they
mentioned those serial killer in the 40
that did the murders yes Rustin Parr
yeah and yeah there's a hole well that's
where the website came in was there such
a whole mythology yeah they only hint ad
in the movie okay so you're supposed to
go to the supplemental material in order
to get something out of the movie well
to get more out of it I mean I think you
get enough I like that the movie is so
vague with a lot of those things cuz I
didn't know that like I never really
looked at the website until after I saw
the movie - to me it was like oh okay
that's interesting it's like I want to
learn more about this but though I like
that it's disjoint disjointed in the way
where it's like oh all these different
people in the town or saying all these
different things so it's like no one
really knows it's just all these stories
and all these legends and that is that
fear of the unknown that I think comes
into play in that movie that a lot of
movies over explain this mark on your
hand
it says rebirth there was like with
every nightfall that came so it would
get worse and worse and worse whatever
it was right then they end up finding
that house which was clearly an
abandoned house which may or may not
have been the house of the serial killer
so we all know about the ending with the
guy in the corner
yes serial killer would make the one
little kid stay in the corner because he
didn't like them watching him well I
killed the other kid that was the legend
about the serial killer but wasn't the
legend about the witch so I I don't know
I was like yeah yeah yeah the we don't
know what's going on something scary is
happening but I want to know what I'm
supposed to be scared of it'd be like
watching jaws and somebody ate somebody
there's a fucking scary too though if
there's something in the water don't
know what it is or the mayor's closing
the beach wife because well that's
that's going to an extreme we're going
in the water that you never see but you
know there's something in there that's
eating people I think that's scary by
itself too until Josh disappears we
didn't know anybody is in danger well
that's how we know that shit's getting
real it's not just someone fucking with
them it's not just like a redneck
messing with them
I guess that's introduced - I just I
didn't know what the Blair Witch I was
not
you're on what exactly the Blair Witch
legend is okay it's like like you know
like the what is it a Bloody Bloody Mary
yeah it's a Bloody Mary three times in
the mirror in the dark and then the
third time she comes on get bright
they've made a movie about that yet I'm
sure they've made multiple movies about
it there's all these urban legends and
the Blair Witch urban legend I didn't
know what it was that's gonna they made
it up
well they but they could have made up an
urban legend
if you woods and you you you find a
stick figure and you know that means
that someone will die in you know the
next 24 hours or unless you find two
more stick figures and then blah blah
blah blah saw something like some sort
of legend that made sense in the context
of the movie that the filmmakers had
some kind of goal or set of logical
parameters but then you get more into
the realm of traditional movie and it
would feel more like a movie and that
sort of defeats the trying to make it
more like a grounded real thing I guess
so
if you're if you're on the woods and you
find all these weird stick figures you
have no idea what they are where they
came from or why they're there that's
that's creepy to me if there were so you
know then in a traditional movie or you
have the character upfront that explains
it all and then you get there and I mean
that that works in a traditional movie
and that works in a traditional horror
movie but with what this movie is trying
to do I think that would be a detriment
yeah I'm definitely not advocating for
more exposition but after a while it
does become a slog what's happening now
god what's a I don't know what's
happening if the whole movie was
secretly about Josh who goes insane and
and hits Heather over the head with a
rock while she's holding her camera in
the basement of a house but it could be
they could it could be no Blair Witch
yeah one of the three could have gone
completely insane from being lost in the
woods for three days and having that
that lady yapping in his flat at all
time and smashed her over the head with
a rock yeah and there was no
supernatural element to whatsoever
that's very possible
sure very possible and then it's
brilliant and I guess the ambiguity
could could lead you to all sorts of
conclusions and that's fine but as an
entertainment piece there is a lot of
where are we lost the map is what's
happening and it doesn't work for every
movie but for me it that works perfectly
in this movie like especially when you
look at it from the perspective of like
we just found all these tapes in the
woods you know we found this footage you
know it's just random moments that these
characters filmed you're not going to
get all the information so yeah I got
you going that go and that's that's what
for me still sets it apart from all
these other bullshit found-footage
movies is that it has that that element
that ambiguity that realism
performance-wise I think it's great
there's a sort of a rawness to it that
you don't see in a lot of traditional
horror movies
yeah or movies in general
we should also bring up the first
Paranormal Activity movie which I don't
even know when that was not too long ago
six seven eight yeah something like that
and that also was boring as fuck we're
not too much happen yeah so I guess
there is a case for the the whole the
horror genre of like not seeing things
and waiting as opposed to the the
demonic nun coming at you but you see in
conjuring 2 yeah but I I don't know I
just it's 2016 now and this this new
Blair Witch movie is gonna have all over
the place I'm hoping there's something
more clever to it based on the
filmmakers previous work I my
expectations are higher than they would
be if I just saw a trailer made by
nobody for Blair Witch 2 or whatever
it's called its lair which would be like
I'd be rolling my eyes I'd be very happy
if they did something minimalistic with
it I think I saw the trailer and I just
remember people running and it's lots of
screaming lots of loud sound yeah so
trailer they gotta sell it as scary so I
don't know what to make of it yet but my
cynical side says that it's going to
have a demonic mountain that would be
very surprising if a demonic nun showed
up in the Blair Witch Project Josh
well the question is does this movie
hold up no is it because cuz i re
watching it I hadn't watched in a few
years so rewatching it I was not
surprised but it was it was made more
clear to me just how quaint it is now
this was a huge pop culture phenomenon
there had never been anything like it
and now you see it it's just so so
simple that's I wonder if if someone
who's grown up with paranormal activity
and Grave Encounters and all that shit
all those movies would watch this in the
same way that someone that grew up on
all the like slasher movies and look
back on the original Halloween and say
this is boring it's a tough question
it's a tough question because there are
a lot of things that that that hold up
well over time and and there are
different reasons why I withdraw my no
and and I I would say the the marketing
element was a detriment in in so far as
saying does it hold up because to me
ever like that was part of a gimmick
that sold the movie at the time was that
that little voice in your back your head
going is this real most people not
knowing now that we know a hundred
percent that is not real the the
spookiness of it is somewhat diminished
I'm not a big fan of the characters in
the Blair Witch they are not strong
characters to me I like them all they're
not fleshed out any more than they need
to be for what the movie is that's fine
that's your opinion I'm not a fan of
them and I'm fuzzy on the the mythology
and the legend of the Blair Witch and
exactly what is going on so a lot of
that falls into the the wayside and then
the big like this is what needs to hold
up is the format
and the the style and this is a found
footage and that to me does seem does
seem dated a little now well another
question is is it scary like that's
ultimately with the horror film you want
to know is it scary and I I can't like
objectively say cuz I'm so familiar with
the movie at this point so I think it
just depends on what you're looking for
and what scares you so it's it's hard to
say the original Halloween is still
scary yeah to a certain extent I've got
a 20 year old would not think so I see
that that's the thing is I was just
thinking like when you're when you're
talking right now if we grabbed a room
of 20 year olds who have never seen the
Blair Witch put them in a theater so
call their phones away of course close
the doors and said this really happened
yeah you know maybe find out which ones
have never ever heard of this movie and
say this is this this is real and now
just to see if if with removing all
technology and things from the you know
modern day and just sitting them down
and making them watch the movie if they
would enjoy it and be scared or would
would the the initial concept of what
they were intending back in 99 of this
is this is a real thing this is their
real footage would it actually scare
someone again I think if you sat someone
down who never saw Halloween and said
watch this that image of Michael Myers
and him coming after her in the house
it's still pretty scary I don't know
it's it's very very subjective on what
is scary and what isn't I remember I
watched when they rereleased
Exorcist oh yeah that was an interesting
experience in the theater the whole
theater was laughing a lot of people
were laughing and it still worked for me
it's it's something that I would love to
scientifically an alliance and do
multiple rounds of testing and you know
yeah I don't know it's hard to say for
me I think like when you especially now
in comparing it to everything that came
out there was more of an influence from
paranormal activity like after Blair
Witch there wasn't a bunch of
found-footage movies it was after
paranormal activity but you look at all
those movies and every one of them feels
phony they just feel like movies and I
for me Blair Witch Project as just an
execution of an idea of this is what
it's supposed to be this is what we did
for me I think it works perfectly mmm
and and that's that's the respect I have
for it is a pretty flawless execution of
a very original idea is it scary to me
not so much but they did a darn good job
that's one thing we can't stoop to is
just mocking the movie for being boring
no no I I don't think the movie is
boring I know people did because they
wanted more traditional scares or
whatever but I I think the movie has a
nice escalation of these characters
slowly losing their minds I think the
ending everything in the house them you
know searching the house I think that
all ending is a great climax for that
story or that movie well let's do let's
do something new on review because as we
discussed I want I want to do some
research
so you out there in our viewing audience
if you are a young person let's say in
your twenties early 20s early 20s and
you have never seen the Blair Witch
Project you don't know much about it
you've probably heard the title get it
rent it's whatever borrow it from a
friend sit in your little home turn off
all your lights shut off your cell phone
and just sit down and watch the movie
don't be on your laptop while it's on
don't fuck around just sit and watch the
movie in the dark with no distractions
and then post a comment this this
YouTube channel on your thoughts on if
if you found it scary yeah even though
we spoiled everything but just just
curious if if the the tone and the mood
the editing the pacing all the elements
that make a movie flow if it scared you
or if you felt 10 tenths tension unease
fear all the emotions that come with
watching a good horror film just be
curious to know because you and I are
older and cynical and we know all the
mechanics of movie and we know when
something works and when it doesn't and
and and all that budget which this is a
harder movie to judge in that respect
because it isn't a traditionally made
movie right so I think there is more of
a mood to it than a general scariness
right
they really lucked out with the weather
because I mean they shot this movie in
like eight days and that was it
which is kind of crazy when you think
about it too the fact that it blew up
the way it did just this little thing
those main eight days but those eight
days it's over casts it's the fall all
the leaves are dead it rains a few times
I got perfect weather for their horror
film but that's the Blair Witch Project
competing with such films in 1999 as the
matrix and Star Wars Episode one The
Phantom Menace
and American Pie that was a big movie
that came out at the time yep and lots
of big movies in 99 the movie where
where John McClane is a ghost
I need spoilers that hard dead hard is
in the title vertigo yeah maybe John
McClane was a ghost and all the die hard
movies oh shits why they had such a hard
time shooting them with machine guns
how does Haley Joel Osment fit into all
this Haley Joel Osment can barely fit in
his clothes
