Oct 25, 2016
Dawn of the Dead
youtube.com/watch?v=EdTNuZWA4mY
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/790908783279034369
redlettermedia.com/dawn-of-the-dead-review

well Jay let's talk about one of the
most famous horror films of all time
George Romero's 1978 film Dawn of the
Dead and here is your ultimate edition
collectors box set that's when the movie
was still commercially available yeah
and here we have one of our main
spoilers now here we have another main
character Oh
spoilers well when you say Donna the
dead a lot of people out there will
probably think of the 2004 film the Zack
Snyder film the Zack Snyder film Zack
Snyder's first and most competent film
as I say yeah that's probably his best
movie well I'm a fan of the 300 now
again but after that it's all downhill
but there was a film before 2004 is Dawn
of the Dead it was in 1978 and it's
George Romero's classic Jay tell us all
about Dawn of the Dead
Donna dead is there's a zombie
apocolypse smoker people hope and a mall
and that's the movie and this comes ten
years after the original classic horror
film Night of the Living Dead yes Night
of the Living Dead of course 1968 shot
in black and whites made by George
Romero and a small group people ended up
kind of inventing what we now think of
as um beasts before that there was like
maybe some movies with voodoo zombies
and stuff but the idea of recently dead
corpses coming back to life and have to
shoot him in the head or set him on fire
it all came from Georgia marrow which is
kind of crazy to think that you know
like Bram Stoker's Dracula was you know
how long was Bram Stoker's Dracula in uh
1895 a long long time ago which is of
course based on a real-life person Oh
Vlad the Impaler glad the Impaler
yeah but then yeah you have like that
you have Frankenstein all these classic
monsters that have been around for you
know hundreds of years and the last real
monster that we think of as being like
this mainstream monster is zombie and it
wasn't that long ago that it was
invented you're forgetting about the
Swamp Thing Oh Swamp Thing of course the
most famous movie monster of all time is
he a good guy Swamp Thing oh I'm
thinking of The Creature from the Black
Lagoon
yes a little bit difference one thing is
like a comic book character yeah the Wes
Craven made into a movie okay um so Dawn
of the Dead is is a radically different
film than its 2004 counterpart yes
that's that's putting it mildly
because it was made during the era of a
filmmaker makes a film rather than a
studio and a corporate panel makes a
film right yeah this is a very
independent movie very low-budget George
Romero
I joined Romero is one of my favorite
filmmakers more so because of his
attitude and his style then that is the
technical qualities of his movies
because his movies are very sloppy in a
good way
they're very improvisational he doesn't
have any sort of like his movies are
sort of made in the editing he just
shoots lots of footage and it makes it
work in editing and I think his editing
is the strongest quality as a filmmaker
yeah I think I compared I'm not the
biggest George Romero fan you're a
bigger fan of George Romero than I am
because I'm not a big horror guy and I
compared George Romero to the industrial
filmmaker who made that not familiar
with Zac please check out our zat
episode even plug in that one a lot
lately I think we mentioned that on the
last best of the worst yeah that is one
of the best bad movies ever made if you
have a chance please see the the unmad
'add version alright you can see zetz
white tennis shoes not presented in the
the aspect ratio they wanted which makes
it even more hilarious
I think you see a boom mic a couple
times you see that's tennis shoes and it
makes it for a more pleasurable filmic
film experience but the guy who made
Zach was an industrial filmmaker in
Florida and then he's like I'm gonna
make a horror film let's lock the camera
down for 15 minutes
yeah well that walks through the street
we have to establish this location so
let's just pan across the entire thing
and it just goes on and on yeah so Donna
the dead I mean George Romero like after
Night of the Living Dead he I guess he
saw a shopping mall or went into a
shopping mall and said this would be a
great place to hide during a zombie
apocalypse I want to make a movie about
that that was it and that was it and he
himself has that the characters kind of
take the backseat yeah to the thrust of
the story or the plot and it's more like
just a movie about for people that have
to survive by living in a shopping mall
during a zombie apocalypse they're still
here they're after us
they know we're still in here they're
after the place they don't know why they
just remember remember that they want to
be in here it's it's a very methodical
movie it's not there's not some sort of
overarching story it's not a
traditionally told narrative it's just
here's the situation okay we found this
mall what steps do we need to take to
fortify this and make it livable and
then what do we do next it's just it
just tells that process yeah and then
that's not to say that it's lacking all
humanity or all substance and the
characters there are moments where they
they start to crack a little they get in
arguments there's some emotional
connection between two characters we
will spoil too much sure sure well
they're strong characters there's we
have our four characters who
unfortunately the three male characters
all have the most generic names possible
so even though I've seen this movie 278
times I can never remember each of their
names
Steven Roger Peter and Fran is the fee
Peter is Ken Foree okay uh Stephen is
the pilot a fly boy he has a nickname
yes and then Roger is the other Peter
and Roger are both SWAT team members and
we're introduced to them in the opening
of the film when they're storming a like
a government housing let's say yeah just
an inner-city slums yeah
currently the zombie outbreak has
happened already we get our first and
last and greatest head explosion yeah I
don't know I've never seen scanners so I
can't compare it to what is considered
the best headaches every head explosion
pales in comparison to scanner this is a
pretty good one though on a scale of had
explosions it's up there although they
left in about eight frames of their
dummy head I was scanning through the
footage early you know what that head is
that's actually a cast that was done of
Galen Ross who plays Fran in the movie
because the original ending of the movie
was going to be her shoving her head
into the helicopter blades so they just
had this head of hers that they just
painted brown and put it like an afro
wig on to put a beard on and they put
beard on it and then they just blew it
up they filled it with like like dog
food and just random things that they
had like in craft service and they blew
the thing up and it's glorious it was
literally Tom Savini with a shotgun he
just blasted the thing nice you can get
away with that kind of thing on an
independent film when no one's breathing
down your neck and that's this whole
movie it's what what can we do what can
we get away with yeah but it's it's uh
like you said it's not very cinematic I
think you referred to George Romero's a
blue-collar filmmaker yes it's not he's
not mr. fancy pants he's not mr. look at
me I'm the director I'm gonna this is
going to be lit all dramatically I'm
gonna turn the camera and the music's
gonna swell it's more just like here's a
shot of what's happening right let's do
that and then it is all about the ideas
put weird music in there that doesn't
match I don't care the said he doesn't
care it said he creates it in the
editing he shoots
tons of different angles he gets
whatever coverage he thinks he needs and
then makes it work in editing and that's
a style yeah and it's the same it goes
with like I mentioned the lighting like
the whole movie is just lit with like
bright fluorescents because they didn't
have time to do anything more
you know elaborate than that yeah
especially when you're doing all these
differ
setups and it's very improvisational
they're coming up with ideas while
they're shooting so it's like well okay
we just need it brightly lit so we can
get everything but this one I don't
think he cared I mean I think it was
more about the gags I he cared more
about conveying the theme and the yeah
the gags the the gore effects which were
also again going with the sort of
improvisational filmmaking idea it was
that was most of those things weren't in
the script it was him turning to Tom
Savini and saying like come up with ways
to kill people like oh we can do this we
can do this we can do that and a lot of
them some were planned ahead and some
were just thought up on the set like on
the day of would you call this the throw
everything at the wall and see what
sticks approach uh yeah to a certain
extent I mean the movie is chaos it
portrays chaos but the actual like
filmmaking of the movie is almost as
interesting as the movie itself as far
as just just controlled chaos yeah which
doesn't work for every movie but it
works for especially for a story like
this that works right right there's no
subtlety that needs to be conveyed it's
all big picture stuff
the remakes okay I think the first 10
minutes is just about the best zombie
apocalypse stuff that's ever been in a
movie yeah as far as capturing the chaos
in a really big elaborate expensive way
that obviously someone like George
Romero couldn't do yeah and then the
rest of the movies just okay it's not
bad well more of an action movie yeah
the difference between the two are one
is very Hollywood and one is very
low-budget independent it's not as far
from Hollywood as you can get
yeah because the 1978 Dawn of the Dead
opens with Fran and flyboy mainly Fran
in a TV station and it's just like she's
just sitting there in the sound booth
like kind of zoned out and that's our
opening shot and then it's like okay
we're doing this live broadcast of these
two people debating about what's going
on we're just thrust into the chaos we
learn immediately that there's some kind
of zombie outbreak and they're just
talking about it and it just cuts to
kind of the the TV station decaying
breaking down this person just walks off
the set this you know who's running no
camera three I don't know swearing on
the air it's a little cameo by George
Romero in the control booth appropriate
position for him as the director of the
program and one of the biggest biggest
most expensive things in the film that I
believe a very large portion of the
budget was spent on was the the paper
signs that they taped to the cameras
which I printed out on someone's printer
very as always even as a small child
very impressed with the level of quality
of the life to just disguise those
cameras as a fictional television
station to contrast the Zack Snyder one
opens how a movie probably should opened
if you're doing it more by than numbers
right which is it opens up with Sarah
Polley who's a nurse at a hospital and
she's working a long shift it's late and
there's some kind of
thing happening and you're not quite
sure so it's someone in their day-to-day
life and then it's like you know
someone's sick and someone has a bite
wound on their arm I got to go home she
goes home and goes to sleep next morning
she wakes up and the neighbor girl is in
the house
that's that's kind of like you wanna you
want to use your first 10 minutes and
you want to introduce your characters
and you want to slowly introduce what's
happening but without giving away too
much and the 10 10 page mark boom that's
when you understand what's happening
bla bla bla bla bla escalation hit hit
your mark zombies are everywhere this
one the first word out of the first
characters mouth zombies are everywhere
no fucking around
yeah fly boy comes in and says we got to
get out of here I got the helicopter all
fueled up fuck all these people right
and you get to understand the characters
without because that's another thing in
the Dawn of the Dead remake is that it's
it's very like it spells out who these
people are and they're very kind of
superficial movie characters these
characters I think the four lead actors
some of the supporting roles
the acting isn't the best but the the
four main characters I think are all
really strong and you really understand
them and they don't have any sort of
conventional arc like a conventional
movie movie arc Fran has the most she
starts out kind of weak and submissive
and then she gets more aggressive and
like I want to learn to shoot the guns I
want to learn to fly the helicopter but
it doesn't follow that's the biggest
difference between the dona to remake
them this is yeah one is a solid movie
in a very conventional structure and
this movie is more it has more
personality because of our idiosyncratic
and different it is it's a solid movie
in an unconventional structure sure so
they're good examples of both yeah there
are a lot of good elements of the Dawn
of the Dead remake like you said ty
burrell I think when I look back in in
my brain I saw it one time and things
that stick out to me are Ty Burrell is
annoying even though I loved him in
Modern Family was my favorite television
programs
oh that's or cash that is awesome
I don't you laugh it shows fucking
brilliant okay you guys have a good that
show has more puns then I know what to
do it excuse me when you two fellas are
done
each other maybe Davy Crockett can tell
us the deal here it's it's very it's
it's a movie that's meant to appeal to
everyone in the broadest way possible
and this movie is like well just musics
weirds like what's going on like there's
lots of lots of weird touches to it
it's like someone in 1978 made it who
was smoking the grass oh you think so
possibly there are some grass smokin
III don't see Tom Savini as a man
who-who would partake in the Mary Jane
while while painting some zombie makeup
man but I could be wrong you never know
we should also note that the Zack Snyder
Dawn of the Dead remake takes place in
Milwaukee Wisc yes it's some sort of
fantasy version of Milwaukee where when
you go out over Lake Michigan there's
like tropical islands out there
somewhere there's Lake Milwaukee a
gigantic island somewhere somewhere
presumably in Lake Michigan yeah that
you can get to by boat and that you
could live on it has palm trees on it
yes even though this is in a tropical
climate there are palm trees
you
but anyway back to Dawn of the Dead so
we have four characters who feel like
real people they're very subdued
there's no wacky obscene character
traits
oh that's sore Cashman is awesome I
think it's great because it's like we're
stuck in the situation what do we do and
everybody's just focused on dealing with
that but but like screenwriting 101 says
so-and-so needs to be concerned with
their spouse no concern at all I mean
it's like they don't even mention
significant others or family or just
fuck it there's only two children in the
whole movie and they get gunned down by
Ken Foree immediately
he didn't even know they were zombies I
was a rich I felt like that that was a
very rich comment no I was just about to
go read but then I realized I was
talking to you but that when they get
into the mall they we methodically watch
them take all the steps necessary to to
secure the mall which is the funnest
part of the movie but when they get into
the mall it's like okay it's overrun
with zombies what do we do well we got
to secure the entrances we got us we got
to systematically clean them out for
some reason they decided to take all the
zombies that they killed there's lots of
headshots in this movie lots of glorious
headshots but they take all the zombies
that they kill and put them in a freezer
as opposed to just like going off on the
roof and just throwing them off I'm not
sure why they put them in the freezer
next to all that food that they could
use now that food has been contaminated
they do a lot of work they shoot all the
zombies I'm not sure what order they
come in but they murder murder if
they're zombies
eliminate all the zombies from the
inside of the mall then they have to
secure the entrances and for some reason
in the storage / office rooms they have
stockpiles of spam well that's the spam
room
don't knock it it's got its own bad spam
you bring a can opener no I guess I
didn't and don't knock it it's got its
own key my only thing that I always
think of when I say when I think of
myself securing a location for zombie
outbreak so you guys secure all the
drinking water that you can oh yeah
that's what I wouldn't even thought of
yeah I would my first order of business
other than food I guess killing the
zombies killing zombies comes first I'm
finding every possible container in the
entire building whether it's just the
bowl in the department store or a
plastic container for something film all
up with running tap water before it gets
shut off
that's number one and then number two is
is stockpile all of your your perishable
foods make sure you eat those first and
then secondary would be your non
perishables such as your cans your ramen
noodles things of that nature I would go
in order but water number one priority
that's not even mentioned in the movie
it's not
that's a misstep it really is this movie
sucks now but let's talk about makeup
you mentioned headshots
I got a book when I was very little
called grand illusions I don't even
think I don't know how I ended up
getting it but it says just a book with
all of techniques he used for all the
movies he had done up till that point so
there's a whole section on down to the
Dead all the headshots are just you take
a quarter tie it to a fishing line put
it on the actors head cover it with like
wax or some sort of makeup appliance I
think yank it off so you get a perfect
round hole and then probably some sort
of burst of I don't think he's an air
compressor or what but something behind
the head to have the brains burst out
the simplest effects and this isn't Tom
Savini 'he's best work this movie
although all them Grey's ahhm be that
sometimes they look green sometimes they
look blue I think it's just he didn't
have much of a crew so it's just we got
to make up all these zombies quick just
paint them gray and leave it at that
yeah well a lot of that goes to the
either the film stock or the color
timing or because the blood too is very
it's almost like neon it's very vibrant
red which actually makes it grosser in a
weird way and it's like sickly it
doesn't look realistic
it's very about it looks gross it's very
orange and they Tom Savini actually
didn't do the blood I don't know if you
know this they ordered the blood from
the 3m company he says on the commentary
and I don't know what that means like
all three I'm just manufacture fake
blood at some point now see I read that
they actually had a someone in the food
industry do the blood a chef boyardee
I get it they went to the the
manufacturing plant and I said how much
can you filter out the O's in your
SpaghettiOs and give us a couple gallons
of this bright orange maybe they
couldn't do that and they actually had
someone on the set with like like a
strainer yeah just dumping out all that
I don't know what they did with all the
O's they donated them to charity okay
it's funny because this is probably the
most like when you think of zombie
movies this is the one everybody thinks
of this is sort of the iconic zombie
film but as like the lamest looking
zombies in it Night of the Living Dead
black and white it's fine they look like
ghouls
you can't tell Day of the Dead is of
course Tom Savini masterpiece the
zombies and that look amazing the makeup
effects are great the gore is
legitimately nauseating Day of the Dead
is an amazing film as well yes
it's weird yeah Dayla dead is my
personal favorite of the movies but I
think Dawn of the Dead is a better movie
overall there's a higher budget so it
actually has less of that sort of weird
creative energy that I think something
like Donald it has yeah it would be a
more conventional setting if you're
talking about the Dead trilogy it's like
each one has its own unique perspective
yeah like the the first one is very very
original it takes place in the farmhouse
it's black and white and it's it's like
it's the it's that's the quintessential
zombie movie that everyone thinks of is
is Night of the Living Dead Classic Dawn
of the Dead Donna dad's the one everyone
ripped off Jonathan yes that's a crazy
70s movie there's there there there's a
biker gang that throws pies at zombies
and things get out of control you could
tell it's just a bunch of dudes having
fun making a movie yeah the third one is
mud is very dark it's more disgusting
mm-hmm we've reached a point where the
only people left are all horrible
assholes and I want to know what the
fuck you're doing with my time like Jim
said in our last best of the worst
episode watching this movie makes me
feel like I have the flu watching Day of
the Dead makes me feel like I'm covered
in disgusting bugs
god
it's a very bleak like this is more fun
movie day that that is a lot Bleeker
which that's why I like it more just
because that seems more appropriate for
the subject matter I like this because
there there's um I mean originally the
original ending was not hopeful and and
it's still even though the two of the
main characters survived it's still not
hopeful right but there is like let's go
on there is something happening it's
ambiguous in a way where it's like well
maybe they could make it they can
survive somewhere we at least know that
biker gangs are surviving out there so
other people probably are too yeah in
Day of the Dead it's like they land and
I think Miami in the beginning or some
are lured some city in Florida some
major city and they're like it's just
desolate yeah everybody's dead except
for the crocodiles except for the
crocodiles we got to go back to our our
underground bunker
yeah and scientists and the military are
working together to find some kind of
solution to the zombie problem and
everyone just goes nuts the fuck is
wrong with you people
they're dead they're fucking dead and
you wanna teach right and then there's
there's like underground caves where
there's just Ward's of zombies if
they're using is like experiment
experiment material yeah and just like
yeah I'd go nuts in that environment and
it's really like it's claustrophobic
it's dirty it's depressing it's the
polar opposite of Dawn of the Dead I can
see why you so many people hated it when
it came out because Donna the dead like
it's big it's open there in the small we
have the run of the whole mall and and
there's sort of a like a fantasy element
to it like a wish fulfillment element
yeah if you take out the fact that
zombies are reading everybody but and
then yeah Day of the Dead is just like
everybody's a miserable asshole and
we're stuck in this tiny hopeless
facility there's a wonderful little
montage and Dawn of the Dead once they
maintain once they get controlled the
mall where they're just having fun with
all the stuff in the mall yeah like
Fran's putting on makeup they have a
nice steak dinner they're playing with
all the clothes and toys and stuff and
and then it's like yeah and now we're
bored and then yeah well that's the
thing is let that's the whole deal with
the movie is
yeah we have we're safe in here or you
know but then then what like we've we've
got this place to ourselves we've got
the zombies out oh but there's nothing
else to do whoever just wait about it's
it's just sort of ignoring the overall
problem what's your favorite scene from
Dawn of the Dead Jay I think my
favourite scene is the opening that just
a stet just sets up the entire tone of
the movie them in the the television
station just showing the chaos because
once they get to the mall it's mostly
just the four of them for the whole
thing so it's nice to see at the
beginning what's going on in the world
before they kind of escape from it mmm
my favourite scenes when they throw pies
in zombies face that's something you
would see in a studio film and that's
that's this movie is so all over the
place or it's like what can we do let's
just do it
you know it's there's an interview with
George Romero that I think it was in the
a/v Club really talking about once the
biker show up and it's just like chaos
and they're running the bikes through
the mall and they were just filming this
in the mall just running these
motorcycles through them all but one of
them sticks his arm while the zombies
are attacking everyone he sticks his arm
in the blood-pressure machine and of
course the zombies rip him out of it the
arm stays in there and the interview
they asked him like why is that in the
movie like why would this biker do this
why would you put that the movie and his
answer was because we could and that's
the spirit of the whole film
should you warn potential viewers of the
1978 Dawn of the Dead film those who
haven't seen it that it may be more
boring her than World War Z I haven't
seen World War Z I would say this movie
is less boring than the Dawn of the Dead
remake there's more action and craziness
and slick cinematography in the remake
but I think this is a far more
interesting engaging movie than that one
that's one way you have to you have to
sit down and you have to watch it yeah I
think I think knowing how the movie was
made helps to like I think it's a fine
movie even if you don't kind of
understand the the style of filmmaking
that they were doing at that time that
very loose sort of improvisational style
but I think it works as a movie without
that but I do think it it benefits from
knowing that - when you think about the
fact that it's just oh we got them all
all to ourselves at night you know mall
closes at 10:00 or whatever and then
we're here till 6:00 in the morning and
we're just running motorcycles through
it and and trashing things it's a less
polished Hollywood production which
tells you how to feel like oh this
character this is happening to this
character oh you should be scared now oh
you should feel this now you shouldn't
like this character because they're
selfish and you know this doesn't tell
you how to feel and that's one of one of
the key points is here it is like these
characters or don't like them and that
gives it more character that's what
makes it a more interesting movie yeah
both visually and into the writing it's
just visually it's just bright lights
everywhere and then yeah the writing the
characters are are under written in a
good way yeah I think I think any good
character that's on screen is one you
could I mean that's your general rule of
your protagonist or your lead characters
that you need to be able to project
yourself into them into their situation
so a good movie you you become engaged
in it when you feel like you're in the
movie you know in rewatching Dawn of the
Dead bub has always been my favorite
zombie performance but I think flyboy at
the end of Dawn of the Dead
his body language the way like the way
he has his one foot like like you know I
don't even know how he did that like it
looks broken I think it's when he fell
they pulled him back down as an actor
like the way he's able to keep it like
twisted over like that and then he's
just got the gun dangling off his finger
he's got the best body language and best
performance maybe ever for a zombie Bob
you feel more emotion for of course
which is kind of where Romero was going
yeah at the series or he doesn't even
care about the humans anymore and his
sympathies start to go more towards the
zombies like maybe we should just give
it to him well that was a dist on it
like you can't just make a third zombie
survival movie where people pull up
somewhere and you know he was that's why
I like day as well I'm not quite there
my heart's with Dawn of the Dead always
but Day of the Dead has it's playing
with ideas more yeah the humans are the
real bad guys the zombies are just are
just pure instinct and creatures the
humans are the ones that have the real
evil yeah the the bickering the
bitterness the hatred the distrust all
those things that are in that movie and
the zombies are just sort of like the
vehicle to tell the story of Joe Pilato
yelling so I would recommend on to the
dead if you can find it yeah there's a
blu-ray on Amazon it's like a hundred
dollars yeah you could probably find an
old DVD maybe yeah
use copies III don't know how much this
set goes for anymore this is you can
find the ultimate edition
this has three cuts of the movie tons of
documentaries it's great yeah I have the
collector's edition here which is I
think it's like fifteen or thirteen
minutes longer than than the theatrical
release this one from India extended
yeah it's the original director's cut
okay yeah yeah there's that and then
there's the European cut the Dario
Argento supervise which takes out all
the humor and and just makes it more of
a straightforward kind of Gore film
they they digitally removed the the pies
and they hit zombies with cannolis
instead now
Italian jokes and happy Halloween I'm
saying it to you Oh a happy Halloween
Thank You J happy Halloween happy
Halloween
