Jun 19, 2016
Independence Day
youtube.com/watch?v=4_LJGPph4SM
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/744675648589946881
redlettermedia.com/independence-day-1996-review

the stupidest aliens in the universe
attacked the stupidest humans on earth
in Independence Day on this episode of
review why are you pointing to oh I
thought we were doing a thing no I point
well J it's time to talk about the 1996
hit film Independence Day and we're
talking about Independence Day today on
this episode of review because
Independence Day resurgence will be
coming out soon is that the title
resurgence I always want to say like a
resurrection or regurgitation Gurjit
ation that's more appropriate yeah
people love this movie
the original Independence Day people
loved it not even like I can see like
people younger than us like that you
know we're like 10 11 years old when it
came out but there's people our age
people whose opinions I respect that
will defend this movie and I've never
understood it whenever we talk about
Independence Day just in random half of
the bag episodes we'll bring it up and
how much it sucks there's always those
comments the fuck you don't like
Independence Day people let not only
this do they like it but they get like
defensive about it the movie ushered in
a new era of big dumb blockbusters it
was it was a watershed film in a bad way
in a bad way there is the Spielberg Ian
Lucas movies in the 70s and 80s the big
popcorn summer movies jaws you know et
but Independence Day kind of like it was
kind of like scream where it changed the
genre like the fourth screen came out
there horror genre was essentially dead
yeah but Independence Day was like boom
big summer of that movie disaster porn
we're talking about the world here we're
talking about blowing up the White House
that image in this movie is like the
most iconic thing in the last few
decades of big blockbusters
yeah but the movie also ushered in an
era of
dumb scriptwriting well that's that's
the thing is like i was rewatching it
cuz I don't I don't watch this movie
very often because I don't like it but
every watches for this and I was
thinking we often talk about you know
structure and character arcs and all
that stuff the structure is there so
what is the difference between this and
and a good a movie that works when it
has all those elements the key word here
J is dumb
the movie is dumb yes
the movie is is made for simpletons
well the story yeah I think it's the you
take like a general structure you take
your character arcs take all that stuff
and and a good movie will flush them out
or sometimes it makes a movie seem more
intelligent than it is because you know
there's a lot of older like big
blockbuster movies that are elevated by
all the details by fleshing out the
characters by flushing out the story and
this is movie that has all those story
structure elements and then that's it
it's like that's the base and you build
on top of that and this movie didn't do
that it's all just those base elements
you know the characters don't feel
three-dimensional or real it feels like
a film version of like Saturday morning
kids show cartoon because you have
characters that are so one-dimensional
it's so unrealistic and there's a lot of
moments in there that are what I call
the dumb people cheer moments hog the
dog the dog defining moment
yeah and okay it may not it may not
advertise itself as a dark serious
doomsday apocalypse end of the world
aliens destroy the planet kind of movie
it's not parading itself around is that
we may not like it but it's not
pretending to be something it's not the
defense I hear a lot is like oh it's
just like one of those old-timey sci-fi
movies but that's always from people
that have never watched those movies
it's the weirdest thing people always
say oh it's just like a corny old timey
movie it's like the only reason those
movies are corney's because they're old
this is like a contemporary movie that's
as kind of dumb and simple as those yeah
well it's from director Roland Emmerich
we're going to talk about Roland
Emmerich well I think this was him
thinking he's going I think he still
thinks he's the next Spielberg or
there's there's all those elements just
dumbed down yeah there's a Spielberg Ian
way of putting a movie together a way of
shooting it
it's the scripts and and I don't know
how much he hasn't involved in the
stories because all of his movies have
all these same hallmarks so either he's
picking scripts that that he likes or
he's giving his input into all these
terrible terrible cliches and and ideas
that end up in all of his movies he made
2012 the day I want to say they keep
wanting to say the Day the Earth Stood
Still the day after tomorrow and there's
a lot of these big-budget disaster
movies and they all have the same beats
and all the same kind of character
moments and all this but you know this
movie is terrible right off the bat
because it's got the hitch over hit the
audience over the head with a hammer
kind of stuff where the opening scene
it's so terrible it's a it's like okay
here there's here's the moon and a
shadow comes over the moon aliens are
coming by great then cuts the SETI the
search for extraterrestrial intelligence
there's a there's a place a group called
SETI and they sit there and they have
tons of computers and they I think it's
a volunteer thing to be to be honest I'm
not exactly sure who would volunteer for
that people that like doing this they
sift through
billions of billions of hours of data
and they look for patterns yeah and so
there's a guy in the cut zoom he's
playing golf and it's the end of the
world as we know it his planes playing
bite REM yeah and he's playing golf
here's here's here's your shot he's
playing golf he's bored not much happens
it's Eddie he get it he's playing golf
in reality the room would be empty and
once a week somebody would come in and
kind of look at a computer and leave
right that's probably what really
happens at study
no one's monitoring SETI 24 hours a day
waiting for a red light to start
flashing when when a weird alien signal
comes in Nicholas Turner Turner Turner
and he's like he falls down and he drops
and grabs the phone well we've got an
alien signal it without even analyzing
it cause the guy in his room and he's
like what board really in real life
you're talking six to nine weeks of
analyzing the data before you even begin
to make any conclusions now I'm not an
expert by any means so Mike you have to
put these things in a dramatic movie you
have to put a new dramatic exciting
exciting and you have to spell it out
yes and I think that's the key is
spelling it out everything this movie is
so spot-on and it looks like cartoon
kids show the first half an hour is is
designed for cool shots and trailer
shots oh sure and and the build-up role
and Emeric likes to build up the text on
the bottom of the screen we're in this
part of the world we're in this part of
the world and then there's those moments
what some picks up the phone and the you
know it's like hey I'm at a party hold
on a minute
say that again just I have another
character getting woke up in bed woken
up in bed
he likes that that people are being
alarmed by something that's impending
right so there's all those scenes bla
bla bla bla bla bla here comes the alien
ships they should be entering our
atmosphere within the next 25 minutes
this phenomenon tapping gonna I don't
know I'm talking on the phone the
phenomenon is happening all over the
world a little blah blah oh that's great
and then this great shot when one of the
ships is coming out from like the the
fog you see like a bridge in the four
guys of New York I think you see it
coming out from yeah my fear yeah the
people it's a nice looking shot that's
all you are all the praise you have yeah
I think the all that lead-up but you're
talking about there's yeah it's all all
little storylines and all the places are
going are sort of connected because
they're all related to the alien
invasion except for the Randy Quaid
stuff it just kind of cuts to him and
you know like why what who is this what
does he have to do with anything I
thought that was a little Jerry's the
most important Kirk he turns out to be
the most important character but the way
he's introduced is a little like what
we're we know what business I was
actually thinking of while I watched
this the the most brilliant sequence in
the whole film is is the Will Smith
waking up in bed and thinking
everything's an earthquake scene I think
the whole movie should have just started
that way yeah
Will Smith wakes up in bed because it's
like it was it's so wonderful it's so
visual and perfectly done he was I was
an earthquake it's not even a
four-point-oh Ani go back to bed goes
back to bed he looks at he goes to the
bathroom he's peeing he looks out his
window there's people like scrambling
and putting their stuff in the cars like
all the neighbors are gone on vacation
or moving out of the neighborhood and
then he thinks there's an earthquake so
it cuts the TV and there's like like
this big shape covering the entire LA
area and he's like the talking about the
quake at TV yeah that's great he goes
out to get the paper and then they never
reveal what he's looking at and
everyone's just staring and then it cut
to him and they got Spielberg and push
in shot as he as he got boom then then
go to the White House so then
everything's great up until the big
moment the big moment the turning point
for me is the introduction of Harry
Connick jr. and the NASA letter that's
the moment yeah when the film goes
downhill
why that moment well one because that's
when it becomes it becomes garbage it
becomes uh they Will Smith can't just be
a fighter pilot he's got to be a guy who
also wants to become a NASA astronaut oh
my god will he ever become a NASA yeah
but I get them I get the idea that
that's paid off with him going into
outer space but it's ham-fisted
characterization a point of stupidity
sure well and like he flies in outer
space that doesn't change the fact that
he's still not in NASA why I don't know
it's it's he gets to go into space
that's been his his just dream I'm not
arguing that it's not dumb I just like
it like that's the it's like was there
any way like he has his one little thing
and then he has the exact payoff for
that thing Will Smith has his NASA thing
then he gets to go into outer space it's
not so much an arc as just kind of a
line yeah I am NOT arguing that it's a
quality character arc it's it's like the
same thing bill Coleman his president
also fighter pilot yeah and he's gonna
fight a flood his plane at the end it's
corny yes groaning is a good description
for it corny and stupid and if you like
corny and stupid it's a great movie my
favorite line is the guy in SETI when he
says this is the real thing a
communication from the aliens and then
he looks right at the camera that's what
we're doing here it's the real thing
a radio signal from another world did
you notice a lot of the like when
they're trying to establish character
traits so many with each character
everything was like repeated it happened
twice like the Harvey Fierstein
character at one point is like I got to
call my mother
well I better call my
I got a call with my lawyer or whatever
oh my god I gotta call my brother I
better call my housekeeper I gotta call
my lawyer so he has to I got a call
moments Jeff Goldblum has to recycling
moments which that doesn't pay off at
all the opening idea how long it takes
for those cops to decompose but there's
like two instances of him like we have
to recycle Jeff Goldblum was a MIT
graduate something like that Judd Hirsch
is complaining out of many thinks he
installs cable television they does
something by the way did you did you get
that Judd Hirsch is supposed to be
really really Jewish did you get that
okay yeah so tell me something are you
so smart how come you spend eight years
in MIT to become a cable repairman yeah
all I'm saying is they got people who
handle these things David they want HBO
they'll call you he's so let's talk
about Jeff Goldblum and you're
complaining he's eco man yes and that
pays off in the fact that at the end
he's very very upset the bill Poland
decides to use a nuclear weapon i
snooped a bastard after the world is
utterly destroyed so he rides around on
a bike because he doesn't have a
driver's license because cars emit
carbon monoxide poisoning which causes
global warming and then he he loves to
recycle and he yells at Harvey Fierstein
to to recycle his Fanta soda you guys
saved the earth right save the earth and
maybe it's funny because he literally
saves the earth but he doesn't save he
doesn't save the earth or stop the
aliens via an ecological solution he
does it be a computer solution that's
what I thought it was so weird and re
watching it why they were setting that
up so strong at the beginning he does
get shit-faced and starts smashing
things when he realizes Bill Pullman is
going to drop a nuke on the alien ships
yes unlike a rational person who says
use the nuke we've resorted every option
possible to us use the nuke they
destroyed all of our major cities that
they somehow knew where our major cities
J you can argue that they can tell that
there were major population centers via
space okay
so we got an alien ship that's one-fifth
the size of the moon
that's the mothership and then when it
comes near the earth of twenty or so
discs like ships which are also really
big start landing on earth and our
introduction of the Jeff Goldblum
character is he's playing chess with his
father oh yes and he says checkmate and
this this my friend J is how we know
this films made for dummies yeah because
Jeff Goldblum and we're supposed to
think this is smart
yeah Jeff goals like chess even though
it's not because we're not playing well
no but what they're doing is they're
positioning their pieces and they're
ready for a checkmate yeah okay here's
the thing when you play chess you have
the exact same pieces on either side and
you're completely equal yeah and you
don't position all of your pieces at
once you make one move and your opponent
then makes a counter move and then you
go back and forth but then you can't
dolly anonymous goes checkmate and the
audience goes oh that means disaster up
checkmate
that means bad does he does he say later
game over or something else or something
similar
time's up time's up
so yeah time's up when the counter runs
out yeah that's right that's so this is
checkmate and then times are the literal
times up because the time was up yeah
that's not really any kind of reference
and anything do you even need to explain
how dumb that is the whole countdown on
the on the laptop well no we can explain
how dumb it is that the aliens are using
our own sets to communicate with what I
mean
well that yeah and then like their their
countdown is in earth time well he no no
Jeff Goldblum printed out a binary sheet
of note ones and zeros and any notice
the pattern was getting smaller so in
his computer language he figure
transcoded that into a literal clock is
that is is it established that he did
that yeah that it slid
his literal clock yeah it's not there
alien transmission he's like this
pattern is degrading at this rate yeah
here's my here's my interpretation of
this rate and this is when it elect I
miss remembering that then cut that a no
no that part is totally smart trust I
could okay cross take your word or you
just rewatched intercepted the code
because the aliens were using our
satellites yeah our satellites that are
so important to them one happens to
smash into the mothership and explode I
don't you mean that but anyway they're
using our satellites because they don't
have their own technology and now they
have their they have no way of talking
to each other secretly they have they
have interstellar travel and ships that
are larger than cities but they can't
they can't talk to each other if these
are satellites which conveniently allows
Jeff Goldblum to you know write figure
out how a way to upload a virus so it's
setting up something in a dumb way to be
used later in a dumb way in a dumb way
well Mike what is speaking of the aliens
what is their goal well it's nebulous no
space pun intended I don't know how they
figure this out but they know that the
aliens are going around looking for
resources but we know because brent
Spiner just says so they're not all that
dissimilar from us breathes oxygen
comparable tolerances to he cold
probably why they're interested in our
planet yeah cuz he's a scientist but
they make absolutely no effort to
collect resources no they just blow
everything up until they stop blowing
everything up to wait a few days to
decide to blow up more stuff no no
here's what they do first
there's their here's the aliens
brilliant plan okay they're brilliant
these aliens they take their their ships
and they position them over all the
major cities on the planet right which
is fine they can figure out which ones
are the major ones monitoring our
communications looking at the planet
Earth at night and seeing which
population centers have the most
electrical grids sure fine with that and
then they position all their pee
is just like chess you move all your
pieces all over the board all at once
and then you make a big move yeah with
all of your pieces at once and they
exterminate cities and then even though
they presumably have faster than light
travel their ships have to slowly move
to other major cities which is why they
had to wait yeah you're looking at is
waiting but really they're moving and
there's a part where both problems like
they just took out Chicago and
Philadelphia Tampa and you know lesser
cities and and so that's the waiting
part they don't they don't notice that
Air Force Ones flying away and in dupe
they don't care about that
they're just slowly exterminating the
planet they're there they're focused on
the big picture just like Ed Wood right
the bitch this movie reminds me of a bit
yes oh yeah so they're there they're
there to exterminate the population
before stealing the resources I guess do
they want that Fanta they want this is
they could hurt the steel or Fanta they
came to earth to seal all of our empty
plastic bottles they should be a good
thing John should let them they just
needed to talk to Jeff Goldblum we're
good we are our plastic bottle you want
our carbon monoxide Oh Jeff Goldblum
sounds a little like Jimmy Stewart okay
so Jay what are resources and I guess
water they want our water water yeah
that's good um
trees I don't know
sure they want our volcanoes suck up a
whole volcano that what they needed to
do it took fuels their ships is to
convert their ship into a giant robotic
spaceship made
suck she's gone from suck whoa I mean
space balls made more sense yeah we're
not just doing this for money we're
doing it for a shitload of money why do
they need to kill us to steal our
resources that's also a very good
question because they could just Park
one of their gigantic ships with giant
resource stealing prongs that come down
into our atmosphere and start sucking up
our oceans yeah and then we come out
what what's that big thing oh my god
it's sucking up our oceans all the
fighter jets on earth attack it Oh our
shields are up yeah bye you know
the movies folly is that it establishes
this very overwhelming undefeatable
force that doesn't know what it's what
it wants right that we don't know what
it wants we talked about the design of
the aliens and how lame it is Sir
they're just HR Giger ripoffs that's
that's my biggest problem with like the
script is like bare-bones what you need
for this type of movie the designs of
like the ships and the aliens and
everything is incredibly uncreate 'iv
it's just the round disk the classic
round disk show the aliens are ripoffs
of of geegaws designs actually and we
don't know what the aliens want well
it's the whole thing is just just a flat
line it is it is very boring and corny
and flat line I would have preferred the
classic Roswell Flying Saucer look well
they kind of doesn't it like splits open
and there's like a smaller it's sort of
that it has a vague round shape to it or
disk shape to it but they didn't they
didn't go all the way yeah because they
look it's kind of cool to the top thing
and it's kind of all this you know
that's got to be different in them right
because I think if they want saucer that
everyone would have complained that it
was too corny but for me that would have
been awesome flying saucers in the hands
of a smarter filmmaker you could do
something interesting with that
yeah but they went like they didn't go
cool enough and they didn't go corny
enough with the alien design where they
went sort of in the middle and it is
blah
yes blah right to me that doesn't matter
at all I don't care what they look like
you know as long as they don't look like
the aliens at the end of the explorers I
would have preferred that in the interim
after destroying the first set of major
cities not just American world cities
they're the humans set off a
counter-attack which is Harry Connick
jr. and Will Smith Will Smith's best
friend listen miss best friend I guess
they're best friends there's a there's a
quick gay panic scene that's insulting
in pointless when he proposes to little
Smith he finds his ring oh yeah I'm he's
like what's this is a wedding ring and
he's on his knees and that's a guy
coming I don't deal with gays hahaha and
then um and then they have their
military briefing as a general tells
them you know we're gonna go fight these
gigantic ships that destroyed the entire
country and then a Harry Connick jr.
makes jokes that says hold me hold me
hey pay attention something you want to
add to this briefing captain Hillier no
sir just a little anxious to get up
there Whoopie teas ass that's all I got
it right here
and that's when dummies laughing with
you well it's a world threatening issue
you want it to be as light and whacky as
possible you don't want your humor to
stem from just naturally from the
characters and the way they interact you
have to throw in dumb jokes yeah yeah
this is from the book of Michael Bay yes
so the the fighter jets attack and they
realize they have shields and then they
they have a little shootout and then
even though they have shields up and
they're impervious to the fighters the
aliens send out their own little
fighters so that it could be like Star
Wars
Oh through but there's a reason
logically in the movie why they do that
right no it's so that the movie could be
closer to Star Wars okay there's even
there's even lines like the one guy
can't pull up nine three five girl
Detroit complete failure in the stairs
yeah which is what happens to Porkins ah
I'm all right round it up for Porkins
and then there's an Asian pilot who says
there's too many of them there's too
many of them which is exactly what
happens in Return of the Jedi yeah uh I
don't know if you'd call it homage or
well it was weird later in the movie
when Jeff Goldblum when they're flying
out of the ship at the end he's like
must go faster like they're referencing
Jurassic Park which came out like three
years earlier must go faster
must go faster yeah I thought that was
odd well it's a to soon moment it's
wrong something brand new is roland
emmerich saying he's the new Spielberg
Lucas yeah well we can I guess we can
skip over the exciting subplot of Will
Smith stripper girlfriend driving a dump
truck around and finding the first lady
cheering me to bring her back to the
hospital to die of horrible internal
wounds which is disappointing because
that's Mary McDonald she's a solid
actress she's good in this movie she
goes from being the first lady to the
president in Battlestar Galactica okay
just like another current politician
it's going to go from being the first
lady to the President and that's Donald
Trump there's a lot of terms for things
that happen in movies and I don't know
if this one has been coined yet but it's
the the dumb offhanded comment that Lou
that that makes someone think of a
brilliant plan oh yeah do not I mean
yeah it's the part where somebody says
don't catch a cold or done her says
don't catch a cold I think goes wait a
minute
that's brilliant why do you don't want
to catch cold uh so I don't know what
that term is
it might exist if you know what it is
put it in the comments below
it's called uh we'll call it a hack
screenwriter tip number 107 so Jeff
Goldblum gets the idea of uploading a
computer virus to the alien ship which
he knows how to do
hey you know what when he's explaining
his plan there's that one guy who's just
like how do we know this is gonna work
and I'm like yeah I agree with that guy
but I also agree with Jeff Goldblum like
why the fuck not yeah at that point what
else you got to lose like you could say
this is like kind of a kinnor darg ument
right yeah how is he going to upload a
computer virus how do you even know that
instantly the alien technology will just
shut it down right right but they
established in the script that earlier
the aliens were using our satellite
systems to communicate with each other
so they're interlinked they're networked
all together by our satellites we're
going to use that to upload something
back to them
sure logically in the script it makes
sense you have to accept it it's fine
whether or not an earth-based computer
virus circa 1996 will somehow magically
shut down the mothership or cause their
shields to go down who knows which is
more unlikely him being able to do that
or Will Smith knowing how to fly their
ship the alien ship Louis because he is
a pilot so he knows how to fly some
alien technology you're forgetting a
very important detail was that he wanted
to be in NASA of course that's why
that's in the movie that gives him that
edge over other pilots yes I'm surprised
I didn't do something that stupid well
it was like a character that just plays
like flight simulators or video a
teenager teenager and then he's the one
who has to fly the ship Appiah the
president's son instead of that stupid
daughter does a president son loves
Nintendo yeah there you go
and yeah oh god yeah that's so dumb it
should have been in there maybe that'll
be in the sequel I'll do something like
that Jimmy you play video games right
it's all about AI hand coordination I'll
examine the alien technology and you
have to have AI hand coordination level
10 even the best pilots and the Air
Force don't have that everyone looks at
Jimmy and he's playing his game boy he
looks up with the sideways baseball cap
that's so bad I can't believe it wasn't
in the film yeah yeah so they go they
fly up in space and then the mothership
takes over and God brings him inside and
then he uploads the virus now mind you
it's not exciting enough if the virus
just shut their power down right you
have to have an earth battle it has to
all just lower their shields right so
that they can still have a space battle
or if a spaceship battle yes which is
really exciting sequence when it's just
endless shit flying everywhere compared
to a modern-day movie I didn't mind that
ending because I understood what was
happening I guess the president's out
there flying he's got his missiles he's
like I'm gonna shoot this missile and
hit target because the the virus doesn't
shut down the the spaceships ability to
power up their their their green laser
weapon right just shut their shields
down so they're they're hanging over the
base where the president and all of them
top military guys are and they're going
to blow that base up so that's the
threat we got to stop that and it's
going to shoot the laser down so we know
what's going to happen we know what they
got to do
they got shoot a rocket up and hit that
president's got the last rocket he
misses yeah Randy Quaid has another
rocket he comes out of nowhere his
rocket malfunctions so I understood what
was happening it wasn't just total chaos
I guess that's a plus yes that's a good
knowing what's going on in the gly max
of your film is usually appreciated I'll
make a point to reference Star Trek The
Next Generation the best of both worlds
Captain Picard spend controlled by the
Borg he's been retaken back by the
Enterprise crew and he says sleep data
sleep and then and then stupid Beverly
Crusher says he must be exhausted and
the day it's like no no bitch he's
trying to tell us a course of action
put the Borg to sleep via a subcommittee
which is very similar to to sending in a
virus and then they put all the Borg to
sleep they trick them into thinking
that's time to regenerate okay but in
order to make it exciting for some
reason the self-destruct starts
happening on the board cube and then it
blows up so I can't be hypocritical I
understand why they just didn't say the
virus turned all the ships off they all
just crashed rain I have to concede this
notion best of both worlds would not
have ended very excitingly if but you
could ship just shut off and they went
to sleep
sure sure but you could reduce the
amount of pointless characters you have
in your movie and just get rid of Randy
Quaid altogether and maybe the president
sacrifices himself at the end to
streamline it a little bit we don't need
all these bullshit characters everywhere
but the dumb the dumbness comes in the
last two hours of the film where where
they the two ever wrote the script the
first 30 30 pages is this looming threat
and then it's like oh god we got to wrap
this up he's on this last five pages how
do I wrap this up oh my god okay they're
going to shoot the space laser down
Randy Quaid has to shoot his plane up
you have to hit the space laser at the
exact moment it hits it's it's full
power but we'll adjust our powers up
it's laser all the prongs come together
and then that's the moment you have to
hit it because the presumably what
happened was the energy when shot back
and blew up the entire inside of the
ship so you have the Randy Quaid
incident incident perfectly done that
man that man hit his mark and then now
we're going to assume that everyone else
did all over the entire planet yeah but
we don't get we don't have to see all
that because America is the most
important sure we figured it out we tell
the rest of the world how to do it and
then they just do it off camera and then
the movie ends and a happy note where
everyone goes to a lake bed dry lake bed
and meets Will Smith and Jeff Goldblum
after they come back to earth all our
characters are reunited at the end and
they're all happy they're all happy the
hooker drives the dump truck yeah run
why is she a stripper is it just the
show like like kind of a lowly job that
she because she doesn't really do
anything in the whole movie she started
I guess she drives the the
the first lady around she rescues the
the president's wife and then for no
reason other than set up for a stupid
joke Mary McDonald ask her what she does
yeah so what do you do for a living
because what the fuck does that matter
anymore
what do you do for work do you have to
be back to work tomorrow did you call in
sick
I says what did you what do you do oh
I'm a dancer I love the ballet no house
of a filthy stripper oh I'm so ashamed
my comment haha well I'm done we love
you love your film there was some mild
to moderate controversy around the time
the movie came out and I could be wrong
about this where they they meaning
either the producers or sensors or
somebody said we don't want to show the
image of the White House just exploding
they did it in the trailer but film they
have an awkward close-up and then an
awkward shot of someone in a holic you
see the helicopter like obscuring it a
bit in the foreground and that's not
what was in the trailer it was just like
a flat shot at blowing up
someone somewhere someplace sometimes
said that's bad that's offensive or
disrespectful or something and and it
was like a controversy and then they had
to re-edit it but Yuri edit and it's
still the same thing still the same
premise weird it's not the uninterrupted
shot of the thing yeah at the White
House ha
and so I don't know and this is pre 9/11
yeah
territory so who knows but I just
remember that being a thing and then
watching the moving going that was weird
that was clunky yeah clunky
if only whoever this was it fought
harder to have the movie just not get
released oh oh
saved us decades of headaches can we
talk about the film called id4 isn't it
what we were talking about Independence
Day for well no now with God's id4 to
coming out you know they don't call it
that Jay they call it Independence Day
resurgence it's a it's a it's a : okay
so ID 4 : - no no there's no - involved
they don't do twos anymore you know they
don't do numbers anymore
now you could blame the Resident Evil
series for that it's just Independence
Day resurgence yeah but the fact that
this was called ID 4 doesn't make sense
there are no if they're not for
independence days right I mean they're
referencing the date of course but in in
1780 there would have been for
independence days but not now I guess
it's like DC Comics which is detective
comics comics oh sure you say cuz it
sounds good
they say it sounds good ID for
Independence Day and it's really it's
really redundant it's just Independence
Day or July 4th yeah
well roland emmerich wouldn't know that
because he's a filthy foreigner i think
i do think that the idea of us like now
having their technology and twenty years
later they come back and we can kind of
use their technology against them it's
kind of an interesting point to start
from as far as the late sequel goes so
we're gonna have a bigger ship and we're
gonna have I think I saw a TV spot where
it was like a bigger alien like there
exosuit is bigger so it's just the same
movie but everything's bigger and brent
Spiner is back even though he died of
course of course I guess it wasn't
conclusive the guy goes down and like I
think touches his neck and I reach extra
pulse and then he's like clearly looks
like his neck is broken
yeah but no one ever said he dies he's
just getting back girl data at least
he's getting work that's the good thing
about all these like late nostalgic
sequels all these revival movies is
they're all like actors that haven't
done anything and forever and now they
all get to have a big movie again yeah
yeah that's true
that's so good for them the Karen Allen
effect Karen Allen effect yeah yeah and
and we all get to learn something
amazing in Independence Day resurgence
is that Judd Hirsch is not dead
that's the most shocking science-fiction
element of all well I guess we'll look
forward to watching Independence Day
resurgence when it comes out in the in
the movie theatres when it comes out on
id4 I'm sorry
Oh July 4th ID for the ID channel
Independence Day July 4th for it is
corny and I would like I would enjoy a
corny movie about aliens attacking the
earth it's called Mars Attacks Tim
Burton made it it was fine but this
takes itself seriously - seriously - be
a silly b-movie and it but not seriously
enough to take its threat serious it's a
weird and it's threat is poorly written
and is there just for the show of it
yeah it look at the big spaceships
aren't they big look at how much damage
they do isn't that amazing
wrap it up real quickly can we stop them
it's poorly written
yeah and it's ham-fisted and it's
pandering and dumb and the the the corny
element is not charming it's it's it
fall it falls into the dumb area and
this is that's a matter of opinion of
what corny is fun and and bad chair but
in this case we're right
