Feb 12, 2017
Starship Troopers
youtube.com/watch?v=OkEdyq3UE5M
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/830927480567377920
redlettermedia.com/starship-troopers-review

from the director of Robocop and
showgirls comes America's favorite movie
starring Casper Van Dien it's Starship
Troopers on this episode of review
they sucked his brains out well Mike
let's travel back 20 years
that's right J it's the 20th anniversary
of one of my favorite films of all time
Starship Troopers oh I thought we were
talking about what mr. Magoo starring
Leslie Nielsen it's my second favorite
of all time 1997 was the year of Titanic
that's the biggest movie ever true it's
true and Starship Troopers was also 97
but it was not the biggest movie ever
no not do very well did I okay ish I
think well therein lies the the point of
our discussion is that Starship Troopers
is highly underrated film is it still
though like I feel like it like people
kind of know about it later well I think
everybody hates it really yeah everybody
still hates it but I avoided this movie
in the theater I I guess I didn't
realize it was Paul Verhoeven cuz I
loved Robocop of course so I didn't see
it till it came in on video but I
remember when it was in theaters and
reading the reviews and it just got
savaged and people were saying it was
like a like a pro-fascist movie now like
did you miss the entire movie young
people from all over the globe are
joining up to fight for the future I'm
doing my part I'm doing my part
first of all a lot of people just think
it's a big dumb action movie about bugs
and it's it has a lot of satire in it
yeah and it's not just fascism there's a
lot of other things that it's satirizing
in the movie but on a surface level it
looks like a big dumb action movie about
space bugs but there's a lot more with
brain-dead lead characters with well on
top of the dumb giant bog action there
is a a romance plot I love a tunnel love
triangle - love square yeah and some
pretty cheesy acting yes and so you have
you have surface elements that make it
look like Beverly Hills 90210 versus CGI
bugs right
which is off-putting for a lot of people
but you have to contrast the 902 oh no
Saved by the Bell stuff with horrific
violence yes which is part of what makes
it work yes there's like a like a meta
element to the whole movie which is that
it never really winks at you and never
there's a couple tiny little moments
that I think gonna go a little bit too
far in like giving away its hand but for
the most part like it's not it is a
fascist boot like it's a propaganda
movie
well it's it no no notnot like parody
way or like a city I mean in the whole
movie is satire but that's the movie as
a whole but the way it's constructed and
the way the characters are portrayed
they're portrayed as if they are from an
old like World War two propaganda film
yeah well they I mean they have the
little the propaganda reels in there
that are the you know the Paul
Verhoeven's staple oh yeah
doing their part are you which are which
are meant to be fun
but those are the most outwardly silly
stuff in a movie yeah and that that's
really like hey you know yeah this is
what we're doing but on top of that then
you have real characters and and that's
that's the rub
and I think that's what people that
what's off-putting to a lot of people
because re watching this movie I mean I
watch this movie a lot of times in the
movie theater oh really
I loved it but rewatching it it is a
very it's a very bittersweet movie and
it's very depressing are you talking
when you talk about the characters a
talking specifically about the arc of
Johnny Rico Rico Rico so you have Johnny
Rico he's our main character and you
have that wonderful opening scene where
Michael Ironside is teaching class and
the lesson of the day is violence solves
all problems I wonder what the city
fathers of parotia would say about that
you they probably wouldn't say anything
Hiroshi MO was destroyed correct naked
forces resolved more issues throughout
history than any other factor we
if you're not if you're watching him you
know doodling and and drawing the little
like kissy face thing and he's sending
it to Denise Richards and early I've had
an early iPad you probably don't notice
the you know the lecture being given but
given by someone who's missing an arm
yes all the adults in this are horribly
wounded and that's that's part one right
is the generational yeah you know
there's always someone coming to come up
to replace you in this in this like
automaton society where you just
basically serve the state yes and you
are cannon fodder and you are nothing
you are not not individuals right which
is but you're given this idea that if
you join the military you become a
citizen and that makes you it's higher
in its brainwashing yeah it's it's it's
a society that's brainwashed right um
to Tollett aryan society is brainwashed
into into loving violence and solving
problems through violence and so you
have the scene and the lecture is you
know Hiroshima was the greatest thing
ever like that solved World War two you
know blah blah blah blah and then you
know he asks Johnny Rico and he's like
Johnny do you believe that that horrific
violence can solve all problems he's
like but do you understand it do you
believe it I don't know I don't know sir
that's that's the little the little
kernel of humanity inside him that where
he could be a normal person but he's
going to be twisted yeah beyond
recognition throughout the course of the
film because I think in a more
conventional movie the Johnny Rico
character yeah there's that tiny bit of
humanity at the beginning he would start
to realize throughout the course of the
movie that these people are and him
included are kind of being manipulated
and brainwashed and maybe rebel or
something like that but not in this
movie or find a solution other than
other than just violence it's continuing
the violence yeah I mean the ending sums
it up perfectly when when Doogie Howser
Neil Patrick Harris
you know uses his telepathic powers on
the brain bug and he says it's afraid
it's
and everyone cheers triumphantly no not
we found a mutual solution now to our
war but we are winning and then it's
like here's the next generation this is
all jumping to the end chair well yeah
there's the younger soldiers that have
now shown yeah yeah but I'm talking
about the little the little propaganda
film at the end
oh yeah it's like Joyner Armen is now
the captain of the ship she has replaced
the other woman she's got a a younger
girl now at her pilot's position it's
just generational and it just like will
keep the fight going yeah keep violence
going and I know I do this a lot and I
apologize I'm gonna apologize in advance
to you and our audience I'm gonna bring
up Star Trek okay Starship Troopers is
is the anti Star Trek because Starship
Troopers is essentially the Gorn episode
called arena in starkness
core phantoms I don't know if you
remember the first the Gorn fight is a
small part of it that's all anybody
knows yeah the first part of it Kirk and
and and the gang it's episode of It's
Always Sunny in Philadelphia Kirk and
the gang go to a federation planet where
everyone's been murdered
so in the Goron episode the enterprise
goes to a planet with federation
colonists and they discover they've all
been killed much like what happens in
Starship Troopers they set up a colony
which are Mormons by the way yes so they
just set up a colony without checking
who's there they don't care that's the
little hint that like we started this
whole thing right and same thing happens
in in the arena episode and everyone's
killed and they kind of figure out who
did it it's the Gorn they're a hostile
race they look like something that's
ugly to us they look like a hideous
reptile like the bugs right like ugly
evil bugs and so you know they chase
they chase the the Gorn ship
I mean it's intervened they're
intervened by like these these Greek god
aliens that are like all-powerful and
they're basically like you're you're
fighting in our territory stop here's
our solution you and the Gorn Captain
Kirk and the Gorn captain are gonna go
down the planet and fight whoever wins
we're gonna blow the other ship up
the Goron's just like when they start
fighting but in the end you were three
Kirk realizes that the Gorn was just
doing exactly what the bugs did yeah we
set up a colony in on its retaining its
turret and so he's like no I'm not gonna
kill him
I won't come starship troopers is the
exact same storyline except for there is
no thought process no it's just the
continued perpetuation of violence
there's one moment because the whole
movie like I said the whole movies kind
of structured as a propaganda film so
the bugs are just treated as violent
monsters that we need to continually
blow apart and there's one moment or
someone's looking at a wounded bug with
some random soldier and the bug we see
the bugs I
one moment where there might be a little
bit of humanity and then he just
immediately blows its eye out and green
goo shoots everywhere yeah
there's no effort I mean they do all the
scientific research but they never
investigate how to communicate with them
how to have a peaceful solution it's
always it's it's it's their society
their society thrives on the need for an
enemy yeah and and that's and they have
all these spaceships they have
faster-than-light travel they've made
all these advancements but it's it's a
fascist society that just breeds is bred
for war and it's just like that's how
that's how this this that's how this
society changed and that's how they
operate well we mentioned Casper Van
Dien we should talk about the casting in
this movie how do you explain to your
actors when you're casting them that
you're essentially casting them as a
joke because I can't take anyone in this
movie seriously the only one that's
that's gotten away from it is Neil
Patrick Harris he's kind of transcended
because you're cast in this movie for
being vapid and Hollow and and like
empty behind your eyes mmm that's Casper
Van Dien that's Denise Richards Neil
Patrick Harris his characters a little
bit smarter some of you that's why he's
gone on to have the secretly evil though
he's yeah he shows up in an SS officer
Nazi yeah and the first like bloody
battle he basically did ran the numbers
and said well we have to sacrifice all
these people in order to get to figure
out if the bugs are gonna do this thing
so yeah he's pretty cold-hearted now and
that's demonstrated early on when he's
like he's like sleazy
he's early on he's using technology it's
just sort of to his advantage to make
fun of Rico but yeah the only one that's
felt kind of miscast to me was dina
meyer as Dizz right dizzy
part of the love square i guess because
she seems like the way she performs in
the movie he's a little like she seems
smarter than the rest of the soldiers
definitely more than Casper Van Dien and
I you kind of think that that's gonna go
somewhere but then she turns out to just
be a brainwashed soldier too let's talk
about the love square because this is
the most depressing part of the movie
it's it's not that an entire society is
is bred for war and violence and
everyone in it is brainwashed
it's the love square Rico is in love
with karma probably for superficial
reasons because she is a flirt
while they're playing football she's
flirting with that other guy and then
you know she's like kind of going back
and forth and then she essentially she's
selfish she wants a career as a captain
or a flight officer and she you know she
eventually dumps Rico the whole reason
he signed up and then you have diz who's
in love with Rico you could say she's a
bit stalkerish I joined up to get out on
my own and you had to tag along you
think I joined a mobile infantry because
of you you saying you didn't if it's a
girl who who does that to joins up to
follow him she's a stalker it's a man
who does it it's romantic no okay but
she's in love with Rico the whole time
and he's just like whatever whatever I
love Carmen and then all the faith's
twist
Carmen loves the the the flight
commander guy and Rico loves Carmen diz
loves Rico yes and then spoilers dis
gets killed
the flight commander guy gets killed he
gets his brain sucked out and then Rico
goes to save Carmen and there's the
moment when Denise Richards pauses and
looks back with like sadness like oh the
man I love is back there dead the true
love parts are dead the two that survive
are the shallow because who that
survived are the shallow vapid soulless
people but then we have that wonderful
shot that's a callback to the beginning
of the movie was the two of them and the
Neil Patrick Harris trust as a Nazi arms
around each other which goes back to the
beginning where they're getting out of
school and they're like let's make a
promise that we'll always be friends at
the end of the movie they are in this
horrible horrible Society and then let's
talk about Michael Ironside well Michael
Ironside is just the best
all the adults I forgot because I had
watched this movie quite a while I
forgot how great the supporting cast is
there's so many interesting actors
scattered throughout all the adults
especially early on we see the people
that used to be in the military they're
all horribly deformed mobile infantry
made me the man I am today
rue mcclanahan one of the Golden Girls
shows up and not only you can tell she's
not just blind but she was clearly you
know scarred by something she's probably
a scientist and and working on bugs and
yeah I'm sprayed some kind of horrific
acid in her face at some plant
yeah I was to reconsider my request to
drop out sir you already sided 1248 son
it wouldn't be legal I was surprised to
see Dean Norris in the film is that the
breaking bad guy yeah the breaking bad
guy was also in Paul Verhoeven's Total
Recall he's the one with the weird
vagina face Oh wouldn't even recognize
him yeah Dean Norris has been in a ton
of stuff oh yeah I was curious of
everybody's age at the time of filming
and they're all in there like kind of
late 20s and I looked up Dean Norris and
he's only he was only five years older
than Casper Van Dien really oh my god I
was like 20 years older I know
do you know looks like Oh like exactly
the same as he does today just like less
wrinkly it's like it's like bad genes
okay they handsome Casper Van Dien and
and what five years will do to a person
okay we'll also throw up pictures of
rich Evans five years apart from each
other I was rich Evans in 2012 and here
he is today
yeah so then you got that thing where
they're like they're like they're very
late 20s early 30s are playing high
school students and there's like the
prom and there's that there's that nine
oh two one oh cheese element oh yeah
yeah which is clearly intentional and I
guess people didn't notice that when it
came out like you would think especially
because it's Paul Verhoeven coming off
of I mean Robocop was like what ten
years earlier at that point so I think
at the period this movie came out there
really wasn't anything like that anymore
that sort of kind of satirical sarcastic
tone because this is like I said it was
like Titanic and yeah movies like that
were coming out at the time yeah either
re-release of Star Wars was 97 I think
the timing was bad like you're saying
because and while the while the the
point of the movie is not so subtle to
us apparently it was too subtle to a lot
of people I think the satire worked
really well for like the first act right
because you set all that up front going
from the the wonderful classroom scene
or they're all you know wide-eyed kids
yeah with their whole lives ahead of
them be friends together forever and
they they they're just buying into this
this society and then like going through
all the training
and then the first battle and then
they're all changed and then it's like
cemented then yeah but after that it
kind of like the plot goes into like a
normal movie mode they should have had
more stuff with what did they call the
sky Scotty director sky marshal sky
marshal who who had to step down and
there's a new sky marshal and yeah they
could have added a little bit more
politic kind of stuff in the background
if they really wanted to go full-blown
like like we're doing total like war
propaganda satire chair but instead they
say yeah everything that's in the movie
and including the second half it's very
cliche but it's very sort of purposely
cliche yeah so it just follows that
general structure but in the setting of
a crazy sci-fi violent you know action
movie with giant bugs but even even if
you if you set aside like the angle of
the movie as just a big-budget sci-fi
action movie it's it's solid yeah I was
thinking about that and re watching it
because every watched it on blu-ray it
was like man a lot of these effects
still hold up pretty well I mean they're
movies that come out now that don't look
this good and that's another thing 297
that was sort of like the end of the era
of matte paintings and models yeah and
there's a lot of models and miniatures
in this movie all the the big ships and
they look fantastic yeah like yeah
there's that wonderful little sequence
when when Carmen and her friend are
flying the little pod and they're just
like showing off yeah and the little
ship is a digital ship but it's going
through all these like the maze of all
these yet and it's all just a giant
miniature yeah the lunar Defense Grid or
whatever and it's very like Return of
the Jedi when they're flying yeah
there's a shot where goes where and
there's all this like metal and beams
and it flies out you see the Roger young
the big spaceship and yeah a level all
those effects out of the ashes of Buenos
Aires come
first sorrow then anger
the only good luck is it dead I don't
know I think I think you just have to
ask people especially younger people who
may barely remember the movie or or may
remember it as a big dumb bug movie but
corny romance with corny romance need to
rewatch it look at it with a more
sarcastic eye you can see what they're
doing
yeah the the completely even lighting
that's the thing it's like I wanted to
complain about because I somewhat
recently re-watched showgirls and that's
actually a good looking movie like from
a visual standpoint the cinematography
al Paul Verhoeven's stuff looks great
and then you look at some of the year
especially the early scenes of Starship
Troopers and yeah it almost looks like a
TV movie right but you got to realize
like they're doing that intentionally
yeah yeah it's not gritty and dark yeah
I mean some of the parts are the battle
parts but you know there's that part
where they where the two guys fight and
they're getting the fist fight over you
know and they're like a spaceport and
it's just like yeah you can make it
smoky and dark and gritty and sci-fi
looking and but it's like yeah it's like
and everybody in the future apparently
listens to late 90s alternative rock
music Mazzy Star as he stars playing
there's a David Bowie song in the film
oh yeah I don't they changed things yeah
but yeah all the characters look like
they're in the Peach Pit that's part of
the charm though like it wouldn't work
if it was if it was true it would look
like it was failing at trying to be
dramatic if it if it did dark gritty
lighting it's it's a happy movie on the
surface like we all cheer at the end but
they're cheering for the wrong reason
yes they're not they're not Captain Kirk
realizing that he shouldn't kill the
Gorn right they're they're killing the
Gorn
and cheering because they're killing it
yeah well I love that too like I said
earlier about how the the bugs are never
shown any sort of humanity in the movie
they're just mindless monsters so at the
end when he's like it's afraid it's like
of course it's afraid just defending its
territory yeah and then you know you
could look at it that that Rico Rico
gets the girl that he's always wanted in
the end but you know that he really
doesn't want her and she really doesn't
want him his true love was diz a woman
who truly loved him and Carmen really
doesn't and he probably really doesn't
love her and it's just like everyone's
cheering at the end but yeah well the
saddest part is at the very end during
the propaganda stuff when we see Rico
like leading the troops yes like yelling
and he's just completes completely gone
but yeah I don't know I think other than
the hollow empty soulless sad depressed
feeling you get at the end when
everybody Cheers
the movies wonderful yes you can
probably avoid the sequels oh god I
remember renting the second one when it
first came out just out of curiosity and
it was like terrible and then I think I
saw the third one which was written by a
new Meyer who wrote the first one and he
lost her a Robocop and I don't remember
anything about it other than it seeming
like it had a little bit more of that
satirical humor that the original yeah
but I don't remember a thing about it
I know Rico comes back yeah they bring
back Casper Van Dien when Jolene bill a
lock is in it wasn't her cartoon series
there's like toys like kids toys for
this movie that's so fucked up I think I
think a lot of people didn't know what
to do or make of this movie yeah it's
like yeah kids should not be watching
this big a sci-fi fantasy film so we'll
make toys I guess yeah you could be just
like Rico Johnny Rico you could be you
could be a brain-dead brainwashed
monster
