Apr 27, 2017
The Mist
youtube.com/watch?v=1asq06rh2qo
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/857583036929650688
redlettermedia.com/the-mist-review

well Jay I think it's about time you and
I talk about another filum and it's
probably one a lot of people haven't
seen that's right because it didn't do
very well in the theatres but I think
safe to say that it's a favorite of both
mine and yours that's right it's the
2007 film by Frank Darabont the mist
while Jay that was a really clever gag
to have all that mist comin right at the
start of our review
oh no the studio's on fire oh my gahh
oh good all the mist went away let's
talk about the classic film classic in
our view the 2007 film the mist classic
hole it's very much a throwback kind of
movie yes and it's not to be confused
with the fog everybody confuses this
movie with the fog you say have you seen
the mist and they say the original or
that remake like no that's the fog
that's a different movie the ghost
pirates come out of the fog big bug
monsters come out of the mist and also
not to be confused with the blob and
blob the remake was written by Frank
Darabont
holy shit in it and there's several
members of the cast of the blob that are
in the mist oh wow yeah I didn't know
that the blob remake is a favorite of
mine
that should be a review at some point
that's coming out
stay tuned 2021 we'll do that it'll be
competing with avatar six right yes
but yeah it Frank Darabont's had done of
course one of the most critically
acclaimed movies of all time Shawshank
Redemption and the Green Mile and then
he made this and I think some people
were like what like this cheapo little
horror movie the Frank Darabont gotta
start the tour he wrote co-wrote
Nightmare on Elm Street 3 the dream war
dream warriors the best Knight Randolph
Street Siegel's just its Genesis there's
very frightening GE prime time yes so so
the mist was based on a Stephen King was
it a short story or novel is your story
it was a part of the skeleton Krew book
okay was that the same book where the
short stories of body was in I don't
think so I think it was a different
different book well how could it be a
different book Stephen King hasn't
written that many books so I get to be
confusing or anything please are we
talking about Richard Bachman - oh God
oh my god yeah anyway so I I have not
read the short story I only read one
Stephen King book and that was it
one oh it which which book though are
you talking about no what's on second oh
my god
anyways but I did not read the miss
short story though let's start talking
about the film okay because the film is
is wonderful but that comes with a
little asterisk well I was watching it
and thinking about like a James Wan film
how everything is like like
precision-like like there's this like
surgical element to like building up the
scares and then there's the loud noise
and blah blah and the mist like
everything just kind of happens and
there's no musical stings there's music
but it's very it's like ambience
ah SAP and it's shots with this sort of
urgency I know he made the movie
relatively low budget so we hired like a
like a TV crew the crew that works on
the shield to show the shield so it's a
lot of sort of run-and-gun
so it feels sometimes when they do like
a quick zoom in on something that wasn't
rehearsed it was just it was almost
improvised yeah see the movie as a sort
of immediacy to it
it's almost contradictory because on one
hand it has this dialogue the characters
it's very corny and very b-movie from
like the fifty and it feels like an
older film and but what the acting
elevate said so oh sure that's sort of a
contrast to now I know I know you're
you're a big shot artist connections in
New York and Hollywood and all like that
but that don't make you better than
anybody else not in my book and nor do I
like being talked down to or called
stupid by a guy who went to college just
because he's got the jitters but you
have that mixed with without the
cinematic element of like a 50s b-movie
with like there
but as it's like modern like handheld
shot kind of feel to it like documentary
style like you said mixed with corny
b-movie dialogue and very very Island
say stock characters but they're very
specific characters yes not very
realistic and it it has this overall
kind of um theme to it which we'll get
into yeah but I think that might have
been jarring to people because a lot of
people watch and go this is this is kind
of corny but Charlie and friend Sabrina
this took Charlie I could you in
screaming shut the door shut the doors
my god one of the big things to note is
that Frank Darabont wanted to shoot it
in black and white and then the studio
said no yes like no one wants to see
movie in black and white we can't sell
it like that but there is a black and
white version I guess he told the
director's cut it's the exact same movie
but it's his preferred version on the
blu-ray or I'm sure there's digital
versions of it too so we're going to use
clips from the color version just for
the sake of that's the one people are
more familiar with but I prefer the
black and white one I think it's more
appropriate for the tone and the
dialogue and the characters yeah and I
actually have the blu-ray here well here
it is and it comes with with with both
the color and black and white version
and I don't remember what the original
poster looked like a film that's black
and white with this kind of poster I
think was what Frank Darabont
was going for yeah and then you have a
modern poster with a color version of
the film
it doesn't quite capture that style and
tone that I think he was going for which
i think would have done the movie so
much better black and white yes all we
saw with tentacles in the cookie food
chemicals from Planet eggs the set up
for the movie I guess we should talk
about that yeah we'll go through it here
it's very classic it makes me think of
like Night of the Living
it's a classic get a group of characters
trapped in one location in this case
it's a supermarket which is an
interesting you know location to have
your horror movie set and mist rolls in
there's something evil in the mist so
that's pretty much it
and then the downfall of all these
characters is their personal conflicts
and and different sort of ideologies and
butting heads with each other yeah very
classic stuff and it works really well
maybe you do believe this maybe they're
not lies there are delusions whatever
keep thinking mr. lawyer
there is no defense against the will of
God it's it's like the or the lord of
lives and all the kids go on the island
and then you figure out who who turns
out to be the leader who turns out to be
the villain
yeah and if Abraham prepared to
sacrifice his only son to prove its love
for God so that's nice he I can't smack
her but it's okay for you it's more like
allegorical the mist it's like it's like
um metaphorical it's it's it's a mist
it's a literal mist but it also means
like once you're once you put in a
life-or-death situation you can become
blinded by like what you can't see right
so that one one lay Marcia Gay Harden
becomes mrs. Carmen need yes she's a
limos not even King character that's
ever been in a Stephen King story she
becomes the religious nut who she is but
it becomes tenfold she gets a
congregation as the movie goes along
which could be and I think that might be
one of the criticisms people have in the
movie is her character's a little broad
and the fact that anyone would start to
follow her but the movie does a good job
of establishing like like she's
constantly right in a lot of ways and so
it makes sense for people to start to
follow her
they'll come tonight and they'll take
someone else see if they don't you will
beg mother Carmody to show you the way
it kind of feels like a stage play the
way the characters are written and acted
well sure well then it gets more and
more over-the-top as the movie goes
along
they're the zealots by the end for sure
yeah don't you know the truth we are
being punished for what for going
against the will of God they're their
cult members and they're killing people
just like our religion yep very own Jim
Jones I'd like to leave before people
start drinking the kool-aid and then
then you have like the pragmatists the
the the guy who's a lead guy Thomas Jane
Thomas Jane and he's just like mr. logic
like we're going to do these things and
then you have like people that are
cowardly yeah and and just a whole like
broad assortment of characters and they
all are there's something in the mist
and we don't find out until later but
it's it's that fear that that's driving
everyone yeah well I like that there's
the the conflict is set up almost
immediately there's the one woman half
the cast of The Walking Dead is in this
movie because it's Frank Darabont
there's the short-haired woman the first
one to leave she's like I got to get
home to my children
oh is it what it can help me yeah
clapping themself man please why did
mmediately when there's any sort of
threat these people are already you know
falling apart and then not helping each
other i think the fact that it's not in
black and white makes it a little
off-putting when you have sort of what
seems like a corny element because you
have this like the small town and Psyche
hey mister so-and-so yeah I'm the
shopkeeper and the bag boy
Ali the bag is and it feels like
something from the past yeah
and so if it was black him like that
would help that and because it was so
low budget a lot of the CG effects are a
little a little dated and yeah well they
didn't look that great when it came out
because it was a lower budget movie and
I think the black and white kind of
conceals that a little bit it looks a
little better yeah
but even like for what it is the movies
not about the special effects well
that's that's what I mean that those are
the the surface level yeah things that
might be off-putting to people but then
you have to say one it's not a movie
about really cool monsters yeah it's a
movie about what happens when a bunch of
people from a town are trapped in a
location and they have no idea what the
fuck is going on and how they all turn
into horrible people how quickly society
can fall apart or the grocery store is a
microcosm exactly now you have all the
different types of people from all
different corners of society and then
and then what happens when they're all
like pushed against the wall and that's
that's really it's a bit movie about
human nature oh my god David more
civilized society sure a lot of the
machines are working and you can dial
nine-one-one but you take those things
away you throw people in the dark you
just care the shit out of them no more
rules
we'll see how primitive thinking I
actually really like Thomas Jane is the
lead actor I think his performance is
really great as the like he's just
constantly trying to talk common sense
and then there's like William Sadler and
the other the other maintenance guy and
they're like dummies and
and even he's just so like trying to
stay calm as he explains these things
rationally you open that door something
gets in here like what like whatever me
he doesn't always I heard you guys been
willfully dense or the teenager
volunteers to go outside under the gates
to do to put the generator and they have
the clear like a gate that the
generators being blocked or something
things like the pimply-faced teenager
all do it like no don't don't let him do
it
yeah norm what the fuck yeah he's so
frustrated and he's just trying like
he's the perfect protagonist because you
project yourself into his character and
you're like I would do everything this
guy's doing yeah and you're not you're
not following the crazy religious nut
you're not you're not the cowardly guy
just like okay let's be logical about
all this and that comes to bite you in
the ass in the end when you're like okay
I'd probably do that yeah and then you
go oh my god oh fuck it makes me
question the Mist got me yeah yes makes
you question your own logic makes you
question your own logic and that's
that's what the movie excels at not the
monsters not the dialogue although the
monsters are fun the monsters are fun
yeah I just mean the dated CGI effects
is fucking practical things in there
that like stand out or other thing and
then two seconds later yeah but you know
like you just have to you just have to
flip that switch off in your brain
because there's a lot of movies with
with bad effects that are great movies
yeah and and vice versa oh I remember
that movie with Judge Reinhold and Fred
Savage so every time I'm no I'm not a
lot of movies with great effects that
are terrible films the invert Oh like
vice versa starring Judge Reinhold and
Fred Savage that's exactly what that
movie yeah
I do think there's a whole unspoken
subtextual storyline to this movie which
is that this is the story of a Hollywood
professional because Thomas Jane's
character he it's moving posters there's
a nice little reference to both the Dark
Tower and the thing at the beginning and
I think Pan's Labyrinth but he makes
these movie posters and he got married
and he had a kid and he had to move to
Maine he had to move out of Hollywood
and so I think this whole movie is about
him presenting his family and now that
this mist has come in he's using it as
an excuse to get rid of that fucking kid
the half of this movie is him sending
that kid away to somebody else
hey did you guys in there there you go
oh you got two seconds big job
what do you think he's constantly like a
blonde lady take my kid are you elderly
Jamie Curtis lady you have to keep the
kids safe but he also has taken charge
it was a help anyone else is taking
charge that's true especially the
military now has three three soldiers in
the grocery store and one of them is a
local kid
yeah and they know what's going on one
of the soldiers was played by Staff Sam
Witwer the voices and for Palpatine but
yes who who acted in several things the
mist the being human a couple other
television programs and he does
voice-over work for Star Wars rebels and
the Star Wars Clone Wars things of that
nature I think he now does the voice for
Emperor Palpatine he does a very good
job at it let's let's take a listen I'm
really glad to pay the rebels for
destroying the Death Star that's pretty
good that's pretty good I I think maybe
they found the best person to do that
particular voice work oh I really can't
think of anyone else that does a really
good help teen impression not off not
offhand okay no nothing comes to mind
but he plays one of the soldiers and
they know a little bit about the
military experiments yeah
which to me I had to pick a flaw in this
film it'd be that that there's any
element of explanation yeah yeah I kind
of like the fact that made it just it
just happened just happened yeah
the fact that there is a rational excuse
or reasoning why this interdimensional
portal opened up now and these weird
creatures came sure could have just
happened but it's not a big big problem
yeah they don't draw too much attention
to it which is a good it seemed like it
seemed like something like someone's
input but yeah you gotta you gotta
explain that well that's that's in the
story that's actually loosely connected
to the Dark Tower books I guess I am
opening these doorways to other
dimensions and the spiders I believe are
in the Dark Tower one of those books
something like that well I take it back
I take it all back
oh it's Stephen King's fault the other
thing for spiders remember the ending of
it I do oh my god it says it can take
the form of anything and these people's
worst fears can come to life and oh it's
real form as if design spider well let's
talk about my favorite scene in the
movie which is the pharmacy scene old
pharmacy that's a nice subtle reference
to go to the pharmacy to get pills for
the guy that's been burned awkwardly
burned that's kind of an unintentionally
funny moment they don't get to go to get
pills they go to get silver sulfadiazine
mean whatever some sort of painkiller no
cream okay
okay a salve like a topical ointment yes
so burn burn ointment called
silver sulfadiazine okay so they got to
get that of the pharmacy codeine silver
salted and cream and I just I love the
look of the pharmacy like you can't even
see the back walls like you just see
some shelves here and there and then
that soldier he's just full of bugs
ah I mean the movie itself there's a lot
of kind of things that remind me of the
thing John Gardner is the thing but
especially that part I'm kind of
reminiscent of aliens - aliens yeah I
can see that big up yeah yeah yeah
that's that's a great scene yeah see
that like that kind of stuff like the
old lady with the hairspray like it's
it's it's corny it's corny but it's
never too silly
yeah and it's executed in a way that
it's actually you know kind of intense
yeah yeah it's not too goofy or funny
and it's all play straight but well
that's I just always I picture this next
to you know like the conjuring eight or
whatever it's like it's not that typo or
a movie yeah it has a very very narrow
audience and they don't make movies for
narrow audiences anymore yeah I think
that's the problem it's such a sharp
contrast from a James Wan film or some
you know Annabelle where it's trying to
please everybody and not leave you too
scared just to jump-scare nothing that's
gonna stick with you right yeah nothing
nothing that's incredibly horrifying is
the idea that if society starts to
collapse
everybody will turn on each other right
that held a little more weight to it
it's a beautiful story Jay this is a
species with fundamentally insane put
more into us in a room with pick sides
start dreaming up reasons to kill one
another
why'd you think we invented politics and
religion ah that's just wrong but Jay
your reference to the pharmacy scene yes
where does this rank and your top-ten
pharmacy seems we have we have Zack oh
well that's number one that'll never be
topped
we have a we have Magnolia when when I
Juliette more freaks out of the
pharmacist baby I just fucking ask me my
life what's wrong I'm just a nap in your
bed in your house where's your fucking
decency and that's fucking twisted fuck
wrong suck my dick
just give it up fucking down so many
great pharmacy seems but I think I think
that is number one
yeah and will always be the number one
pharmacy scene in a film I agree I agree
wouldn't I be great if when they're in
the pharmacy and they're like spraying
the the spiders and then the next
monster that comes out of the Mist Adam
is that he's got his tennis shoes on
yeah no no and they suddenly like freeze
up because they're scared of all these
spiders and shit then they see that
thing and they don't know how to feel no
no the grandma is a spraying with the
hairspray that comes out with his oh he
has aerosol spray I would say so many
great scenes in this I don't just want
to talk about the scenes because the
momentum this the pacing is all perfect
yes just it's it's perfect build-up you
know what's happening a little
establishment early on that things are
starting to fall apart already
and then the escalation of the mrs.
Carmody character kind of influencing
people and then it really gets to like a
frenzy mm-hm
liqu domino effect yep and as its it
keeps you entertained
the whole time because you don't know
what's going to happen next you don't
know where it's going to go well it
doesn't the movie doesn't have a
traditional kind of story structure to
it either it has an escalation but then
it reaches a point where it's not like
we have a clever plan to get out of the
situation it's just like everyone's
going nuts we're just going to leave
like we've been in this place long
enough we need to just get out of here
well I mean there is a mild
establishment where they make an attempt
to get to a car early on and it fails
horribly oh sure so I think like yeah
it's it's kind of like they'll really
only have one option and get the hell
out of there and they reach that point
where it's like we could stay here with
all these crazy people or we can take
our chances with the bugs right like
they finally reach that point where yeah
that sounds more appealing than staying
in the store with these other people
yeah whether I mean they're starting to
kill them yeah so it becomes very very
savage very unruly and so yeah and
that's that's that's where it's all
building to
I feel like even though review we kind
of go through the whole movie will it
will we'll talk about the end we'll make
a little spoiler section I think I say
we don't even bring it up okay it's bold
it's dark it's cruel and I think a lot
of people don't like it because of that
but but it's the ultimate point of the
whole movie right but I think some
people it's a little too uncomfortable
again you don't want you don't want your
horror movie to be too horrific no you
got to leave them with it with like a
jump scare that has no substance to it
still image of the ghoul comes up yes
that animated mouth because the studio
said we need to punch at the end yeah
them with the ghoul okay well we have
this still Oh
oh my god Dobby never won shrieks and
then they laugh and they leave the
theater where they exude and that's not
this movie no this is a night of a
living dead type movie yes and it took
it took a lot of risks yeah this is a
great film and it should come with the
note that you have to look past some of
the cheesiness which is the
black-and-white version you watch the
black-and-white version look past a
little bit of achieving us imagine it as
as a 50s b-movie and it's not a movie
that you're supposed to be scared of
creepy monsters yeah it's allowed by the
visual effects yes or wild by the visual
effects they're serviceable
yeah or jump scares or anything like
that it's a movie that you're supposed
to be creeped out by the ugliness of
human nature and I think that's the
overall point that a lot of people
missed miss oh my god the pun of the
Year award goes to Saul Guerrero save
the puns save the dream
