Jul 2, 2017
Blade Runner
youtube.com/watch?v=adjfTktpIzg
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/881660989774716929
redlettermedia.com/blade-runner-review

I'm here with Colin we're drinking zimas
and we're talking about Blade Runner it
tastes like the 90s so Colin we're here
to talk about later on earth
yeah this is a film that you love right
yeah of course who doesn't love blade
runner' well this is a film we've we've
joked about that's rich Evans is long
wet there's other people around oh
they're like they hear Blade Runner and
looks like they crawl out of corners say
all I'm we fucking boring now you know
but I know we've made fun of this film
many times when the deadly go sailors
led by the terrifying captain Salazar
Javy err boredom is so boring I feel
like I'm watching the league right and
every time we do people get very mad at
us because well you know later on her
it's kind of be couple of movies that's
just objectively good
yeah like trying to criticize The Wizard
of Oz or people like are you an asshole
like it's great everybody loves this
it's one of these films I like I kind of
like over the years just assumed that
everybody kind of light because it's
like a sci-fi classic yeah and it's like
aliens or something like that and you
hear people like talking shit about it
it's like what wait a minute it's
definitely a movie there's never been
another movie that I've wanted to love
as much as this one again every i
rewatch it every couple years and in
hopes that it'll finally click and every
time I watch it
I appreciate some aspect of it just a
tiny bit more so I think in another 20
to 30 years I may love it okay but what
Colin what is laid runner about well
Blade Runner okay it said in the future
world of 2019 yay
the far distant future now 2019
everything is owned by Cola and Atari
and Zima and there's a I don't reckon
Zima industry in the future there's
these things called replicants which are
kind of like genetically engineered
slave labor they're humans
and they used like on the offworld
colonies to do like jobs that humans
don't want to do right kind of like
scoping out planets for colonization
doing shitty jobs like working as
prostitutes that sort of thing and
they've been banned they've been made
illegal on earth because of like you
know a couple of went rogue and like
killed like 26 people or something like
that
and when they are on earth they have
these Blade Runner units which is just
like cops that hunt them down in kiplyn
the opening for all kind of ends with it
saying that it's not execution it's
called retirement so Harrison Ford is
basically one of these blade runner's
you know the film opens with him getting
called back into action by his old boss
got the wrong guy pal
low-five Nicholas if I just play is
he say you bridge run very classic kind
of film noir cops yeah absolutely all
back into action yeah I carry this job
he's retired he's sort of out of the
business we don't know why or when it
happens or how long he's been you know
whatever but he gets called back in
action there's like these four
replicants so it's gone rogue the back
on earth he's gonna hunt him down and
kill him starting a very clear cut as
far as like there's these four replicant
yeah you you are in charge of killing
them they were design the copy human
beings in every way except their
emotions
the designers reckoned that after a few
years they might develop their own
emotional responses hate love fear anger
envy so they built in a fail-safe device
which is wood for your lifespan it is
probably the best special effects movie
ever made in the pre-digital era yes
this is a masterpiece on a technical
level this is something that I think
almost like overshadows every other part
of the movies just like the visual yeah
the the vision of the future and the way
the special effects are utilized like
the miniatures Oh like you can probably
you probably know all about that stuff
yeah of course it's like insane so it's
like you know even like watching it a
few days ago and blu-ray it's just
incredible like how good it looks
well some of it I'm assuming was
enhanced for the final edit right
there's only a couple of things and it's
only sort of like a little mistakes or
things like you know where the sort of
flying cars are hovering and they just
sort of digitally erase the wires one of
what we should mention that we're
talking about the final cut because
there's there's depends yeah there's 27
different edits of this movie I'm feel
like 46 have like every every different
version it's like you know they have the
version that Ridley Scott showed his
buddies like one weekend I'm gonna use
draw I had like they did like the the
title card in like different fonts
is there a comic sans version absolutely
it son did you get this come to the mall
I feel like that's any version that now
80 something-year-old Ridley Scott talks
about that holy James Anderson oh my god
which for anyone that isn't aware the
tactical version the studio was
concerned that people wouldn't be able
to understand what was happening yeah so
they brought in Harrison Ford to record
a bunch of like voiceover like film
water can we do it well yeah and
apparently I've never seen that version
but I know he's like basically just like
perfectly fine screws it up sushi that's
what my ex-wife called me goldfish I
guess it's like a trope of like you know
detective well that's why I think it's
interesting and I've never seen that
version but I know everybody hates it
because they like the more ambiguous
version but like I can see that working
because the movie has a very sort of
film noir element to it it does yes like
actually yeah it's totally like a sci-fi
more but he was against doing the
narration the voiceover and he purposely
read it horribly so it they wouldn't use
it sir and hopes that they wouldn't use
but they did yeah they don't advertise
for killers in a newspaper that was my
profession ex Blade Runner hard time
later on I think it was like in the
early 90s or something like that
probably 91 they came out with the
director's cut made removes the
narration it was like oh this is kind of
cool but then he'd also added in this
unicorn scene
and it was kind of like unused footage
from legend that really Scott had
directed so what you're saying is this
wasn't part of his vision of Blade
Runner from the start no are you saying
that Ridley Scott is a hack I'm saying
well can we get the really Scott he is
his or ridley the Ridley Scott aspect of
the movie is very important you know to
kind of deciphering the movie so okay so
he took unused footage from legend the
legend threw it in the film because at
the very end of the film when they're
leaving Deckard's apartment and he's got
Shenyang and he kind of looks down and
he finds this origami unicorn yeah that
edward james olmos left four member
james olmos his character gasps
throughout the movie makes these little
kind of like you know origami pieces or
whatever so it's sort of implying that
you know I was here you know I know
you've got Sean Young I didn't kill her
but I'm going to give you a head-start
kind of thing I was here I'm letting you
go yeah well the implication was adding
footage from an unrelated movie that he
just threw in the film yeah the
implication is that Dekker himself the
man who tracks and kills replicant may
be a replicant himself not only maybe
well the final cut makes it pretty much
like well in according to released God
himself
he's a replicant at the behest of
everybody else in doing a lot of eye
rolling yeah and that's that's kind of
where the movie falls apart for me and
why I find it incredibly boring right is
knowing that knowing that Ridley Scott
in his mind Deckard as a Ruppel kid like
okay then why do I care about anything
in this movie yeah I think that's just
one of those like things that over the
years he kind of came up with like even
as an ambiguous idea like even if it
wasn't he wasn't so overt about it and
it wasn't really ambiguous to me it's
not interesting the whole idea the the
central idea of the movie is that
Harrison Ford falls in love with Sean
Young's care why they're they have no
chemistry whatsoever
I want to goldfish
well this is interesting yeah if you've
ever like read anything about the behind
the scenes on Blade Runner is a great
fantastic book called future noir shun
young and her support hated one another
Harrison Ford and Ridley Scott did not
get along I'm sure the making of this
movie
Harrison Ford thinks the idea that
Deckard's a replicant is stupid too as
most people do this is the writers of
the film a Hampton user the worry it's
based on exactly and everyone Deckard is
not a rub totally absolutely over the
years he just sort of got it in his head
like it would be neat if you know
Deckard was a replicant
and that seems where it's in my mind
where it starts and ends yeah like he
just had that idea and didn't think
about how it would affect the entire
rest of the movie doesn't really and
that's the thing so basically what he
was saying and it's like Hampton Fancher
was interviewed and he's like no I
didn't that wasn't the intention when I
was writing the character he was saying
it's like there's a part in the movie
where Rachel assessing Deckard have you
ever retired a human by mistake no but
in your position that is a risk it's
sort of like
implying that you know maybe you know he
could be like what really separates the
replicants from for humans it's like you
know they have these sort of she has
like these fake memories because she is
a replicant and she acts like a robot
we were also hinders the movie for me
and that if the whole ideas like
replicants are indistinguishable from
people but we have her acting very much
like a robot and then we have all the
human characters also acting like robots
mm-hmm I mean maybe you could say that's
the point I'm like all the human but
like well definitely Harrison Ford
implants those aren't your memories
there's somebody else's there Tyrells
nieces
okay bad joke I made a bad joke you're
not a replicant well I think that's just
his character sure Deckard so we kind of
like just broken cynical sad person very
lonely you kind of get this sort of like
he has less humanity than the replicant
yeah I guess that's that's the kind of
reveal but like you see this apartment
is like you know shitty and you know it
probably drinks way too much kind of
like sadness I think yeah about his
character that's what I kind of found
interesting because you don't you know
as I'm saying it's like you're coming
off of like Raiders the Lost Ark
Harrison Ford you know the only movies
that people Newman were you know as han
solo Indiana Jones at that point yeah
and then you've kind of got this
character who I think he brings a lot of
vulnerability the the I mean the whole
thing is like the irony that it takes a
replicant to make him sort of rediscover
his humanity yeah but but you have him
in the replicant have no chemistry
whatsoever I don't understand why she
brings us out of him because they both
kind of suck I think that maybe she is
sort of like instigation for him sort of
like snapping out of it maybe he's sort
of like cotton is sort of like dead end
sort of loser life and as a character
arc that's great until you factor in
that he's supposed to be a replicant
well and then that completely that I'm
not even counting that because I think
that's something that really got in his
head it's like some fucking thing
I mean this was pretty much him like
with the director's cut saying okay I'm
going to put in this unicorn yeah
and it's like and everybody's telling
him no really no dammit the right here I
can do on the editing yeah well they
have no control because he's the only
one making this thing yeah Hampton
Fancher is out of the picture it's like
Harrison Ford's long gone
he's like I'm gonna fucking put a
unicorn in there and I finna did Lee say
that you know he's a replicant and it's
just like you can just see the writer
just like oh fuck sake well I have
whatever a very
very recent quote from Italy Scot about
this whole thing so this is in regard to
the new film Harrison Ford's back yeah
this is very interesting
so is he a replicant is he not and
apparently he and Harrison Ford got into
it on the set of that movie oh really
yeah about and I think to this day like
Harrison Ford still has a problem with
Daisy share I'm curious to see what the
loom of the new one I had no idea but
this is a recent interview with Ridley
Scott about the idea of decker Vina
replication oh it was always my thesis
theory I remember someone had said well
isn't it corny I said listen I'll be the
best fucking judge of that
I'm the director okay so and that you
know you know by then I'm 44 so I'm no
fucking chicken I'm the very experienced
director from commercials and the
duelists and alien so I'm able to you
know answer that with confidence at the
time and say you know back off
it's what it's going to be I think
Harrison was going I don't know about
that I said but you have to be because
gaff who leave the trail of origami
everywhere will leave you a little piece
of origami at the end of the movie to
say I've been here I left her alive and
I can't resist letting you know what's
in your most private thoughts when you
get drunk is a fucking unicorn white so
I love beavis and butt-head so what
should follow that is goth
so now it will be revealed in the sequel
one way or the other what are you
serious oh my god this is the director
of alien calendar I know the way I hit
the left I think the whole thing is he
just wanted to really let people know
these a big fan of beavis and butt-head
holy shit Wow but this is the ramblings
of a confused elderly filmmaker that
doesn't understand his own movies let's
talk about release a la George Lucas No
Thank You Ridley Scott
I I kind of tried to give some credit to
prometheus when it came out sure yeah
everybody was shitting on that movie uh
yeah and I was like you know there's
some interesting things here he's trying
to do something and usually it's an
amazing movie
so I was like I'm going to give him some
credit yeah it's probably I think a lot
of his movies that do succeed kind of
succeed in spite yeah and that's the
interesting thing about Blade Runner so
many people talk about it as being this
like a brilliant film with all these
themes about like identity and what it
means to be a human but it's like really
Scott is constantly trying to fuck that
up the director's cut with that stupid
twist I mean like dexhart being a
replicant yeah it doesn't make any sense
yeah like how would you know he's
apparently been doing this for years
because he you know when he goes back to
meet and mid Walsh is his boss know he
doesn't know he's a replicant and then
you know Shan Young's characters
introduced she doesn't know she's a
replicant but she's like the latest
model yeah so Tyrell is explaining this
to Deckard she's beginning to suspect I
they suspect how can it not know what it
is colors is our goal here at Tyrell
more human than human is our motto
Rachael is an experiment nothing more
and he says that we've created this new
model that she's got this buffer like
these memories we've implanted these
fake memories even old photos where she
thinks it's her in the photo as a kid
yeah exactly yeah and so she's the
latest model that has this and it's like
what Deckard was maybe just as advanced
or more advanced way back in the day
when he was like well and also you have
the other replicants like they clearly
they're more human than human as they
say you like like one of the guys dips
his hand into like freezing trace um
well they say any in the opening crawls
like their agility yeah physical
attributes are more enhanced than humans
but they kind of have the same IQ sure
but then yeah and then you have like
Rutger Hauer and at the end yeah who is
really like the interesting character of
the movie more than anything is like the
most sympathetic character of the
yeah he's the best part but when he at
the end you know Decker's hanging off
the building and he decides to like pull
him up yeah like youth like his
superhuman core replicant he's like a
combat model yeah and so it's like well
this guy's stronger if Decker is a
replicant he's just like a shitty
replicant yeah of course you can Harris
look it makes no sense yeah so that is
like a whole bunch of Ridley Scott
gobbledygook but to me that infects the
entire movie maybe it's like if I'd seen
the movie kind of before like if it's in
a completely pure possible like might
have changed just my sort of you know
seeing the original version yeah over
the years it's like in Canada every year
there was like this one channel on New
Year's Eve as soon as it turned midnight
they would always play Blade Runner yeah
and it was always the theatrical cut so
we'd like seen that many times over the
years you know it's like maybe just
seeing that having kind of ingrained and
then having all these different versions
like I just have a kind of different
take yeah on it and I'm able to kind of
like I decide anything I also think just
like because of Harrison Ford's
performance never the lack of chemistry
between him and Sean Young like yeah it
really kills any sort of momentum I
really like his performance I think is
like it's very underrated and it's very
you know what I mean it's like he like
you're saying he's coming off these
charismatic characters like Indiana
Jones and Han Solo but I think people
kind of shit on it because it's like oh
he doesn't give a crap or whatever like
that but I think that's his character
and he brings some sort of interesting
like I'm saying it's like there's a
vulnerability to that character
can we can we talk about the scene
leading up to him shooting her in the
bag well down there okay so this is
baffling to me yeah this was kind of a
weird one his name is Salim me can I
talk to you for me I'm from the American
Federation of variety artists
he's trying that he is putting on a
persona to interrogate her sure he's
investigating them in the third sector
yeah if there's holes drilled into her
dressing room are you for real
oh yeah I'd like to check your dressing
room if I may for what for her hold hold
well you'd be surprised what a guy go
through to get a glimpse of a beautiful
body so basically I doing the whole
thing in like this goofy voice goofy
voice why she doesn't know who he is he
can just be himself yeah so like
Harrison Ford what I don't know if you
know this but he's like a master of
comedy and physical comedy hi Tom
Hollywood homicide yeah it's like so you
know he'd been a huge influence on Jim
Carrey like as far as like you know
voices sure funny voices
yeah pratfalls that sort of thing
physical comedy I think like Harrison
Ford yeah he's like an you know unsung
genius side sure it's like the
old-school like you know they kind of
Jerry Lewis
anything else you want it no thank you I
clean it out of you and all he does is
make her very suspicious of him
absolutely and there's like a lugar
Minds whole thing completely I'm like
you're the best like detective that's
like why even bother doing that voice
yeah thanks so terrible my name is
pistachio disguisey yeah so that's what
kind of weird scene but I mean it just
may come back to to just the working
experience he had you know working with
Ridley Scott like I said like they did
not get on yeah yeah it almost seems
like that scene he's just doing it
sarcastically yeah they're not going to
use this in the movie
yeah there does there it is this is like
the narration yeah what is that's oh my
god I quit because I'd had a belly full
of killing I keep trying to get fired if
I heard not working on evidence you
mixes ha I'm designing your life sure if
only you could see what I have seen your
lives
well let's talk about record Howard
because oh yeah a real star of the movie
ándale is my recent rewatch because
like i said every time i rewatch it I
there is something about it I appreciate
a little bit more Rutger Hauer is so
good in this movie and I wish the entire
thing was about him he's perfect because
this is a case of like oh this is an
interesting story yeah this this
replicant that kind of learns to
understand humanity and at the end of
the movie
spoilers he doesn't kill Harrison Ford
when he has the chance to save them he
saves him yeah and that's so much more
interesting to me than the Harrison Ford
character you've kind of got these two
parallel stories going on in Blade
Runner so it's like Deckard kind of
hunting down the replicants then you've
got the replicants yeah so their whole
like kind of hunt is basically they want
to meet dr. Eldon Tyrell he's like the
creator kind of head of the Tyrell
corporation they want to meet their
maker make meet their God basically
right to see if they can extend their
life this kind of ties into Ridley
Scott's other movies you see it kind of
coming up in Prometheus Oh
alien covenant that's true I didn't
really think about that yeah with the
whole David character like meeting he's
got this thing like you sort of see like
certain things kind of stick in his head
over the years and yeah and I like come
out it again and again button specially
an alien covenant is this some self
reflection from Ridley Scott where he's
like I I'm the Creator I'm reflecting on
my own stuff
oh it's disappointing yeah he probably
thinks of himself as God I think you
just deal with his big fat cigar they're
reading all that crap stuff that I
seniors in but head was so happy you
found I don't think there's another
human being in the world it would have
helped it rutger hauer and like all the
other replicants i think like give
really good performances Brian James the
star of the film the horror show no
really in which he has a little girl
helps with a night with a glico like a
big blade to her throat right oh he has
a Lance Henriksen as the cop and he's
like let that little girl go let that
little girl go and he cuts her head off
and throws it at Lance Henriksen
and the only reason I bring that up is
because I want to cut to a clip of it
happening unfortunately it turns out to
be a dream now this is a story for
another day when we do a review of the
film the horror show aka house 3 oh my
god there was a house 3 there's a house
for why would that be the horror show -
you better get it up I'm going to have
to keep yeah unless you're alive
you can't play and if you don't play but
Rutger Howard oh yea rather last seen
with Rutger Hauer this is the the best
scene in the movie I think the whole
yeah the whole like scene in the
apartment the lead up to it is part of
what I find very boring ok once
Harrison Ford gets to the what is called
the Bradbury Building every building in
LA yeah it's a real place yep they shot
scenes from avenging angel there and are
in Susan Tyrell v they throw a baby off
oh yes they throw a baby off a balcony
and I'm only matching this so I can show
clips but it's the same building and
Harrison Ford is just wandering around
the hallways and because for me I don't
care about his character these scenes
are so dull
well okay Rutger Hauer comes in and then
he's like okay I'm going to give you a
head-start breaks Harrison Ford's
fingers and this is like some of the
best Harrison Ford I call it the
Harrison Ford rubber face acting it's
amazing you see it earlier on in the
movie when he goes and meets the
strippers aura and he's doing like the
funny boys yeah she's like punching him
the highs of Jim Carrey amazing this was
I'm saying he's like inspiring Jim
Carrey which is just laughing and he
does it again when her Archer breaks his
fingers whoa it's like he's putting his
fingers back and enjoyed rah rah
you feed a lot you can actually see in
like a lot of other movies where he's
getting punched
oh I think I'm like Last Crusade - it's
great look out for
the Bladerunner is now being donned the
hunter lay defenses Rutger Hauer is
fantastic in this movie I think in like
a lot of his movies brings us weird
quirkiness to like his characters but it
kind of sells this like just a little
bit off he's like kind of crazy you know
he like strips down he's wearing these
like bicycle shorts and that shirt you
know he think he's almost like a cat and
like playing with a with a bird or
something he's being cruel but you know
he just wants Harrison Ford to feel what
it's like to be kind of chased yeah and
then he kind of saved them
I've seen things you people wouldn't
believe is the rocker how're speech that
here yeah their peers and rain speech
was apparently like improvised
supposedly that's yeah somewhat
improvised mmm all those moments will be
lost in time like tears and rain
time to die
this is it this is like I've only got a
few seconds left and everything that
I've seen is going to vanish and nobody
will ever know anything about it I think
it's like very touching and you can kind
of see it and Harrison Ford's eyes that
oh it's like life actually means
something
yeah you know what I mean it's like
actually worth it in Rutger Hauer you
know he's not unless he view it that
Harrison Ford's character is a replicant
and then who cares oh okay so talking
about that great scene in the original
version with the narration that the the
end of the whole scene will be soon as
Rutger Hauer dies oh the voice-over
comes back holy crap - oh my god I don't
know why he saved my life maybe in those
last moments he loved life more than he
ever had before not just his life
anybody's life my life I think he
realized that life was worth saving in
bah-bah-bah Oh God even joking like it
is absolutely horrible
oh man you have to display that awful
yeah so like you know there's there's
not a perfect cut of Blade Runner
anywhere we don't have that perfect cut
there probably is some sort of fan at it
oh man I got that one unicornia take a
unit end scene but I would say trim the
movie down a little bit enhance to
twenty four one five six
enhance stop moving stop pull up track
right stop Center and pull back stopped
and half 34 to 36
