Oct 18, 2017
Re-Animator and From Beyond
youtube.com/watch?v=NAPeMftLe_o
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/920698353788309505
redlettermedia.com/re-animator-and-from-beyond-review

so Jack yeah we're back the last time I
did a review with you I think was blade
which was a movie that you love and are
very familiar with and I was like I saw
it in the theater I don't remember very
well so now we're on the opposite end
where we're talking and we're doing a
spooky Halloween double feature these
are two movies that go very well
together
I think yeah reanimate er and from
beyond which are movies that I love that
you had not seen before right same
director same writer some of the same
casts and and made pretty much
back-to-back oh that's another thing
connection they have is both based on
the works of HP Lovecraft sure but yeah
very very loosely based but we'll get to
from beyond I guess we'll start with
reanimate er for those who have never
seen it you know it came out right or
wrong along the same time as the Evil
Dead movies leave that one to kind of
right in between them comedy in their
horror films right horror comedy which
this is definitely it's a comedy it's
straight up it's a comedy with Gord
the story hurry animators oh very basic
this young scientist when request goes
to Miskatonic University in Arkham
Massachusetts which is it made up HP
Lovecraft town it's where the Arkham
Asylum and Batman that's named after
Arkham from HP Lovecraft works so comes
to this town ends up rooming with a
young go-getter students who's dating
the Dean's daughter the Dean is friends
with another professor at the school
named dr. hill who has a creepy
lecherous obsession with the Dean's
daughter and the mad scientist is doing
experiments on reanimating dead flesh
they gave him life what I really loved
about the movie is the clarity of it
it's a very focused story everybody is
written very specifically they all have
things to do that propels the story
forward it's it's really like it's so
it's a really tight script which helps
because a lot of the movies kind of bad
in a lot of ways mainly the effects
which we'll get into but the characters
are well written I think all the actors
are greats
dr. hill played by john kerry there's
there's so much to unpack in just your
presentation of the movie where it's
like all the characters are well-written
if they are outlandish cartoon
stereotypes well sure it's a comedy
if you were to remove and I think this
is the the best horror films work this
way where it's like if you take there
should only be like one sort of horror
aspect and if you pull that out it still
works as like a character-driven thing
and I think the idea of this sort of
like dark weird drama about this guy
who's dating the Dean's daughter and
then the Dean's friend has this creepy
obsession with the daughter and there's
this sort of not love triangle but
there's relationship triangle going on
yeah like that kind of works that could
work as its own story but then you drop
in that Herbert West who's who's
reanimating dead cats and bringing
corpses from the morgue back to life and
that's when things go crazy
and I guess like to to your point even
even just the you know the the young
professional go-getter gets a roommate
because he's short on cash and the
roommates a little eccentric and might
get him into trouble like yeah oh yeah
the he gets dragged into it along with
Herbert West right like you could
completely remove these zombies from
this and just have it be a drama which
is which is true but it's and I'm saying
this lovingly is wonderfully
over-the-top oh sure well this is a
b-movie they're not a best of the worst
movie because it's too good but it is a
b-movie through and through Jeffrey
Combs in particular is chewing every
piece of scenery all around him he
interrupted an important experiment in
progress
granted it was an accident but this is
the freshest body that we could come
across save of killing one ourselves and
every moment that we spent talking about
it cost us results no we don't give me a
hand like what was the pencil snapping
thing that's just to show his
frustration bringing death brings about
an irreversible collision and this is an
aspect of the movie I like is that
there's kind of this like a creative
person versus a horribly unoriginal on
creative person these people are here to
learn and you're closing their minds
before they even have a chance what are
you you know you should have stolen more
of Gruber's ideas than at least don't
have ideas this so Wes there's gonna be
a pleasure to fail you dr. hill he's you
know he's the teacher of this class he's
talking about you know the human brain
can last for six to six to 10 minutes or
something like that 12 6 to 12 minutes
once these activities cease the brain
can only survive an additional 6 to 12
minutes 6 to 12 minutes cuz that's what
he's been told that's what he's learned
he is dead set on this and Herbert West
says these ideas about you know
reanimating dead tissue and that we can
we can sustain life long after that and
so he's just breaking pencils to show
his frustration which leads to one of my
favorite lines in the movie
just full of great lines perhaps mr.
West I suggest you get yourself a tank
and make sure to the two to speak it to
the back row well that's a this is a
good time to point out them that Stuart
Gordon the director of the film started
in theater he started at uw-madison
actually we're here in lovely
wisconsin-madison which is about 70
miles west of us in the 60s he was doing
really like counterculture stage plays
he got shut down a few times by the cops
like like really stuff that got him into
trouble oh cool so he's always been
really subversive so so theater is his
background and re-animator was his first
movie and it is it's very theatrical
it's very over-the-top which is perfect
for the material like it works and the
movie itself as far as like eye socket
about the character dynamics and stuff
it's very I mean the movie there's
essentially five characters there's a
couple peripheral characters as well but
it could work as a stage play absolutely
it's been done as a play it's actually
was turned in to reanimate er the
musical also directed by Stuart Gordon
we should probably talk about the score
to the movie which i think is a
wonderful score
but before the movie was made it was
already proven as being a wonderful
score when bernard herrmann composed it
for psycho
it's it's just psycho
I don't know how nobody got sued over
this it's it's I mean it's changed ever
so slightly but it's psycho tech I mean
if you copy something you really like it
that's true so yeah I know in that hold
that whole opening credits sequence was
is very Hitchcockian oh yeah this is
kind of a Saul Bass all this Anatomy and
it's all colorful like it's that's the
movie you know perfect tone from the
beginning of the movie yeah stark
contrast to colors weird stuff very
Hitchcockian button yeah that's course
it's just like
one of the things I enjoyed about it so
much was how they weren't afraid to show
with goods oh yeah yes this was released
unrated they went for it it's a horror
movie and you know so many times I'm
thinking specifically of that scene
where where Jeffrey Combs is about is
killing Dr Hill with the shovel yes and
you know his first strike is kind of
off-camera you go oh okay it's just
gonna be blood splattering on the wall
but then no the doctor has a shovel in
his neck and there's that great shot
kind of from behind like a foot level
and you see that top of the head just
kind of roll off that's another that
actually that has that scene has my
favorite line in the movie which nobody
there's lots of lines from this movie
that people quote uh-huh
but no one ever talks about this one
maybe because it doesn't work out of
context but it goes back to what I was
saying about like a creative person
versus a none creative person dr. hill
was trying to steal Herbert West reagent
which is the neon green fluid that
brings the dead back to life and trying
to pass it he wants to pass it off as
his own work and so yeah he's looking at
a microscope and then Jeffrey come beats
him over the head and as he's shoveling
his face Herbert West just goes my other
favorite line is cat dead details later
you couldn't call right no I was busy
pushing bodies around as you well know
what I'm saying damn cap did details
later the the whole movie this end from
beyond
I think follow this really amazing kind
of cartoon logic to them oh yeah we're
we're like and I'm sure there's a
specific name for that that thing in a
cartoon where they go off on a tangent
and then the tangent grows on itself oh
sure that's the whole movie yeah it
keeps moving forward I think the movies
like 80 some minutes 82 minutes
something like that 86 and it's a
perfect ramp yeah the beats comes you
know we get we get our first little gore
scene with dr. Hans Gruber
which is weird cuz Hans Gruber's of
course the main bad guy and diehard
completely unrelated as far as I know
that that's like in diehard that's not
an HP Lovecraft reference cuz I don't
think Hans Gruber is a character in the
original story so is diehard referencing
reanimate her because her animator came
first possibly or maybe Hans Gruber is
like the John Smith that's the most
common name and it's Switzerland
that's where we animators from I don't
know where where is he from and I heard
he's generally Eastern European so you
know we start off with our first kind of
intro gorban and then just slow paces so
you know what I'm trying to think of
what our first our first like horror is
the cat yeah dan wakes up in the middle
of the night Herbert wes is doing his
experiments in the basement
he's got the cat puppet on his back and
he's wrestling with it it is a puppet he
doesn't have a cat puppet on his back he
has a cat skin rug staple this is sure
he has a stuffed animal yeah but then he
throws it behind the the cupboards or
whatever and then they're like you just
hear it running around which is good in
theory but that seems always been weird
to me as far as the lighting because
it's supposed to be like there's the
overhead light that's dangling back and
forth like okay that's good but for some
reason they chose to put like lights
behind all the cabinets yeah it's very
weird looking it was probably just a
practical decision like we need to see
something yeah so put a light back there
yeah but it's a clever idea to not show
the cat where they're just like looking
around for and you hear it and knock
some things off of a shelf and oh that's
great oh yeah I know and then you know
of course we get the adorable
birth is always painful Herbert West is
like before they reanimate he's like no
watch it you know as a broken back don't
expect it to tango like the idea of this
poor dead cat with a broken back and
they bring it back to life and it's just
like moaning and pain like in theory
that's let's like sad and gross and
creepy yeah in context so you're just
like ah but that's our first like that's
our basically our first stepping stone
into the gore this much exposition
horror then this much exposition and we
get buff naked dude it was Arnold
Schwarzenegger stunt double from that
era
the whole idea is that Herbert West has
this idea that the fresher of the body
the the more likely it is to reanimate
and be more like it was before it died
the farther away you get from that way
they turned into mindless zombies that
don't really have any agenda they just
kind of flail around and make noise
animalistic
yeah animalistic that's good so there
they go to the you know the more tried
finding the freshest one they can chaos
ensues because the Dean shows up it
turns into a farce
oh yes really when the zombies knocking
the door down it just falls right onto
the team and he's jumping on it it's a
cartoon they have made it a cartoon and
then the deans dead and so then it's
it's you know it's theater it's yes and
okay the game is dead so now we have to
just take the Dean and reanimate the
Dean we're not gonna find a fresher
specimen than this and big shock it
doesn't work
in a fun performance I think him as the
mindless zombie is pretty hilarious dr.
hill as we mentioned he gets his head
cut off and that's the moment I knew I
loved this movie is as soon as the head
in the blood bucket was telling the body
what to do I was down that's that's what
we get yeah full-on slapstick with the
body like flailing around the office lot
of the body detached from the head can
still communicate with the head oh yeah
then the head is in the heads in a
little tray it's a severed head with a
neck stump because whenever we get a
close-up where it's the actor like
clearly cut through a hole in the table
it's just like a little flap yeah that's
where like they've really tried I want
to say like you know cuz you need you
need the actor talking yeah and so you
know just get in real close don't worry
about anything under the actors head how
do you feel
my favorite though and my favorite I
mean the worst yeah is when he's
actually holding the head in front of
him and for whatever reason his body is
now like five times wider how they
accomplished that masterful special
effects it's great but that's the thing
it's like these effects it's not the
best but the the movie is so fun and I
think like you mentioned the pacing like
the way it keeps ramping up it's so well
paced and and there's lots of fun
dialogue funny lines that you're willing
to forgive that stuff you know yeah it
doesn't drag the movie down it's just
kind of served like oh I guess I'll
accept those you'll never get credit for
my discovery who's going to believe a
talking head get a job in a sideshow so
then you know you get you know towards
this end and you know you have a
headless body carrying around its own
head and you think to yourself obviously
this is it this is as far as you can get
and then all of a sudden a gaggle of
naked zombies sure yeah yeah I mean I
mean I mean this movie Jay well in it
and it all holds together by Jeffrey
Combs his performance is really like
that's the star of the movie well he's
he is playing it very sincerely but also
incredibly over-the-top yeah well and I
just like that his characters so his
character is so focused and he's not
really a bad guy he's just trying to get
the freshest corpse as possible except
for he murdered someone well he was a
plagiarist Herbert West has his limits
I don't know if we're ready to talk
about full frontal nudity oh I think
we're ready
so Barbara Crampton Barbara Crampton the
Great's the great Barbara Crampton god
bless her soul well this is the thing
because I you gotta go all the way I
mean that's with a movie like this you
know and I want to say she replaced
another actress that was like ready to
go and then kind of got cold feet at the
last minute and Barbara Crampton is like
hold my beer and she came in and she's
fearless like cuz the character on paper
is she's the girlfriend you know yeah
she becomes the damsel in distress which
is like we've seen that a million times
but I think Barbara Crampton performance
like she does some subtle things that
kind of elevated a bit and I'm going to
find out what happened to where she has
this sort of like struggle like you know
between wanting to like please our dad
but also be a good girlfriend to Dan
because they want to get married oh
you're not doing this justice nobody can
hear justice you just have to see it a
severed head is licking a naked lady no
it's fucking absurd and it's sir that's
upsetting as it should be but look what
I was gonna say is like we see so much
unimaginative like cheap shit on best of
the worst with like we gotta have a rape
scene so we can work boobs into the
movie and like the filmmakers are so
they're not really thinking about I
think Josh put it on an episode like
they're not thinking about it for what
it is right this movie is very much
aware of what it is but at least it's
creative and it's so weird that it
becomes something else it becomes
transgressive and it's like it adds to
the overall creepy tone of the movie
because you know the movie is trying to
balance that like genuine whore with
comedy with spectacle well and it
wouldn't be as disturbing if it wasn't
for Barbara Crampton like she believes
it yeah in that moment she believes what
is happening to her because we always
like with best of the worst movies again
we'll you know see one of these kind of
creepy rapey scenes and we're always
just like oh that poor actress like you
feel embarrassed for them but it's clear
that Barbra Crampton is in control like
with her performance she's fearless I
like it almost it almost got to the
point where I was like I felt
embarrassed when the once again severed
head starts going in between her legs
say dr. Kiehl I'm very disappointed in
you
yeah but they knew like we're gonna go
over the top we're gonna go extreme but
we know the exact moment that we will
have gone too far and that's when he
gets interrupted it's perfect and that
is absolutely correct that I was just
ready to hide my face behind my pillow
yeah when it cut it was great now great
because if you took that any farther the
movie would probably stop being fun I
mean for some people it might not be fun
through that entire sequence but but
they knew like the right moment it's
it's the moment that made the movie I
mean that's it's referenced in American
Beauty where the body is walking around
carrying its own head and then the head
goes down on that Bay reanimated I am
gonna keep referring to this movie as
adorable and quaint because this was
part of that low-budget revolution that
happened in the early 80s where people
just wanted to make some weird shit and
they did yeah well and it was a period
where the weird shit could still gets
theatrical distribution both this and
from beyond were made by Empire Pictures
which is run by Charles band they
basically built their empire no pun
intended on Ghoulies little low-budget
movie made a shitload of money that
Charles ban was able to finance all
these other movies with like reanimate
er and from beyond and troll because he
kept trying to hit another Ghoulies
Ghoulies made so much money that he was
able to finance all these other things
in hopes that another one would hit like
Ghoulies and it didn't so he's just like
spend more money spend more money we're
not making more money and then blow her
final wad on Robot Jack so our company's
dead oh that was the end of it oh if you
got to go out you might as well go out
you know
you
Crampton we move on to from beyond and
immediately I was really excited because
you know she's in reanimate her she's
the sexy college co-ed but and from
beyond
she is a sophisticated doctor woman
she's a brilliant psychologist and she's
very young they call her like the girl
wonders right and so I said oh great a
step up for Barbara Crampton never mind
I'll show you those right up front
reanimate er is a cult classic lots of
people like that movie from beyond has
its following but it's not as like well
known or ingrained in pop culture as
reanimate er was sure and I loved every
animator but from beyond is my jam it is
not as focused of a movie
it's a little sloppier but it's got
everything you could ever want in a
movie we got goopy rubber monsters we
got kinky sex and we got brains being
sucked out through eye sockets it's just
the best all of these things happen like
very far apart from each other and
there's so much in-between this is this
movie what a joy to watch and I always I
don't know why I like another reason I
think these movies go well together as a
double feature is like I have this like
color thing in my mind like color
association where it's like we animator
I think of the green color and then from
beyond that's the pink movie
yeah especially like when they're in the
resonator room yeah I get that harsh
pink and blue lighting on it it's
gorgeous
well it's the movie is a definite it's
the second movie Stuart Gordon did
reanimate it was his first feature and
then he did from beyond almost right
after and it's a definite step up as far
as the look of the movie the the way
it's shot the performances the execution
of the effects sequences it really like
you can see a growth as a filmmaker
between those two movies yeah yeah and
it's you know the the basic premise is
some mad scientists have found a way to
tap into a segment of the human brain
that lets them see things normally
unseen other other planes of existence
which exist around us all the time but
we don't see them and they can't see us
unless you turn on this device called
the resonator yes dr. Pretorius is his
name that he invented and you turn that
thing on everything turns purple and you
see little space worms much like
reanimated the thing I love about this
movie is there is no mystery as far as
whether or not the device works because
that that's like a clearer way a modern
horror movie would do would do this
story is like does the Machine really
work or is he crazy
nope here's a goopy worm it just bit
Jeffrey combs in the face done yes
opening the scene the opening scene the
pre-credit scene for this movie that's
the entirety of the HP Lovecraft story
yeah that that's it like the rest of the
movie they've had to make up because it
was just based on this short story and
it's so it's so HP Lovecraft it's just
the the unseen horror yes yeah it feels
more it's uh it's not as goofy of a
movie as reanimate er yeah it's still
incredibly goofy but it doesn't it's not
as kind of self-aware about it there's
not like the comical one-liners and
stuff it's more straight but it's still
very silly movie of course but it yeah
it feels more in line with HP
Lovecraft's writing then re animator
does absolutely so well so what happens
to sum up the rest of the movie because
that's the pre credit scene that we just
described
some things coming Jeffrey Combs is
accused of murdering dr. Pretorius it
bit off his head
like hunt gingerbread man and in order
to figure out what happened what
happened Barbara Crampton convinces the
police to release Jeffrey Combs into her
custody but Bubba is there for police
protection so we got our three
characters in a house they turn on the
resonator again you sure we're ready for
this goopy monsters come through again
and everyone loses their mind that's the
movie basically it's a wonderful setup
it's it's there's not as much story as
we animator yeah cuz you got you know
the personal character dynamics and
reanimate er and this one's a little
lighter on that but it makes up for it
with weirdness what are you gonna do to
me
to kiss one of the side effects of
turning on the resonator is it
stimulates the pineal glands in your
brain which is a real thing
no and apparently when that's stimulated
it makes you super horny
Jeffrey Combs goes too far with his
pineal gland to the point where he can't
contain it in his head anymore and it
bursts out like a skinny dick I think
Stuart Gordon has some repressed sexual
issues I'm gonna go out on a limb here
because you know like you there's that
weird sex scene in reanimate er and you
go and a part of you wants to say that
might be a little exploitative that
might be a little you know just for
shock value but then the kinky horror
sex is a main subplot sure of from
beyond you go oh that's just to her
Gordon this as much as we animator
hinges on Jeffrey Combs performance I
think this movie hinges on Barbara
Crampton she's given a lot to do in this
movie yes she starts out as brilliant
kind of uh petites psychologist and then
she becomes sort of a mad scientist
almost and then she's a sex obsessed
dominatrix she gets electroshock therapy
she loses her minds
whole range of things to do in this film
yeah they tried to they tried to like D
suck sapphire at the beginning by giving
her gigantic glasses and like baggy
clothes big shoulder pads but it done
work it's like it's like Rachael Leigh
Cook and she's all that I put on all the
dumpy overalls you want we know so you
know going along with like Stuart Gordon
themes naked dude butts great if you
ever saw Dawn of the Dead and said I
want to see that guy in a wet speedo
here you go you're welcome but I guess
like it's it's also like very telling of
the director he's just very he's very
open yeah
with body stuff he's just like ya know
he sleeps in his a speedo and now he's
you know wet speedo that's fine
mister mr. haire tank top over there
it's honestly more disturbing than the
goop monsters yes yeah he's naked
there's there's there's sexual themes
there's there's that whole like sex part
after Jeffrey Combs was like burnt by
giant worm stomach
it burns his hair off yeah well India's
burned he's like chemical burns all over
his body and then Barbara Crampton
decides to be a sex dominatrix
well the dr. Pretorius he was doing
kinky stuff in that house as we learn
from some VHS tapes so he has like yeah
dominatrix outfits just laying around
his bedroom yeah and Barbara Crampton
has now been exposed to the resonator
it's affected her brain and she's under
it and so she she this time because in
the last movie she was being sexually
assaulted by a severed head this time
Barbara Crampton is doing the sexual
assault II tables have turned is that
female empowerment or is a sexual
assault always bad like the nudity
yes yes
dan Caine in reanimate er he's the
everyman he's the normal guy he's the
voice of reason yeah that just kind of
gets caught up in this crazy world and
then Ken Foree he's kind of that in this
one Ken Foree though unfortunately does
not survive the film he gets turned into
a little skeleton goop thing spoilers
and his goopy belly I loved it that's
gorgeous that was gorgeous I saw you die
no not die just pass dr. Pretorius he is
at the beginning of the movie he
essentially dies in our world but he's
sort of transcended to this other plane
of existence and that's where he just is
now yeah just the body body change
so yeah they turn on the resonator and
he keeps coming back and they just
become obsessed with this world that
they can't see and so they keep going
back and back and it's harder Ken Foree
really appropriately compares it to a
drug addict don't you understand this is
the greatest discovery since Ben Lupin
Hook first field microscope and so on
and me but yeah but he wasn't down there
with the amoebas and every time we go
back you know going to that perfect ramp
of reanimate er this is that same kind
of cartoon mentality where the
roadrunner keeps doing crazier and
crazier stuff every time they come back
dr. Pretorius is a little bit goofy ER
kiss my dear
and and yeah he's like he turns into
like a cricket monster a little bit
that's when it borders on like the like
come on type of effects of reanimate er
when like in reanimate or when dr. Hills
holding his head and it's like this
looks terrible there's a little bit of
that when he becomes the big cricket
monster where it's like it's clearly a
dummy head but then they cut to the
close-up and like the camera is
conveniently cutting him off with the
chin like gee how did they do this yeah
he's he's like a pretzel monster but
overall the effects are a million times
better than they were in reanimate er
all the creatures I mean they go the
they go down into the basement and that
giant worm monster that eats Jeffrey
Combs hair yeah is amazing because it's
practical it's just this gigantic puppet
and you can tell that like I you know CG
is a wonderful tool but if there was a
giant CG war monster in the basement and
it was flailing around it would not have
that same like you believe this you know
it's not real but you still kind of
believe it well you know there there's
like there's interactions with a
tangible physical world that a real prop
can do yeah so you know they're in a
basement that is now filled with water
with a giant worm when that worm slaps
around you can see the water spray
people react to it realistically when
when you see you know a man's junk in a
wet speedo slap around you know that
there's junk in there oh I see I thought
that was a special-effects Ken furries
crotch I thought that was a prosthetic
can I also want to mention when it comes
to like practical effects the house
itself is in effects which you may not
even realize but when they're at like
the end of the driveway with the gate in
front and the house in the distance
that's a miniature house it's like a
half-scale house that they did where's
that forced perspective really because
they can mean the whole house is a set
the interior but for the exterior yeah
they didn't have a whole house set so
they just make a miniature house set so
cool yeah cool things like that where
you're like I would never even notice
that that's clever one at one of the I
think the most powerful effects in the
movie is Barbara Crampton
broken me oh yeah isn't that gross and
like that comes after some pretty big
effects yeah she jumps out of a window
and breaks her leg on the fall and just
her entire knee joint is hanging out of
her skin yeah holy crap that's effective
because you can connect with it like I'm
never gonna see a giant worm monster
that's gonna bite my hair off but you
know I know what it's like to you know
injure my leg so it's like you have that
personal connection that makes it work
yeah yeah
much like reanimate er perfect ramp but
there's another part of a movie called
whales and if you are if you are on the
rails and or off the rails
sure so there's this point in from
beyond that I really thought was the
finale of the movie they're facing one
of the pretzel versions of pataw rias
yeah I thought that was the end of the
movie no because you know you get the
giant goop dr. Pretorius and there's a
big conflict about getting power away
from the machine and I really thought
like okay this movie makes it's weird
but it makes perfect sense then there's
this whole other aspect of the movie
with Jeffrey Combs and a tiny skinny-dip
con is for his pineal gland is now
exited it's it becomes so strong and
powerful that his head cannot contain it
anymore and it's controlling him and
it's giving him a desire to eat brains
they leave the house they go there's a
whole Hospital sequence and he has a
tiny skinny dick on his forehead Jim
there were rails I didn't even know
existed the movie knew exactly what it
was doing but I did not well that's
that's all you can hope for it from a
movie is it'll take you to places you
are not expecting I do want to point out
near the beginning of the movie when
they first when Barbara Crampton first
goes to see Jeffrey Combs in like the
the mental ward or wherever he's at the
hospital and she's going down this hall
and she's looking in the various rooms
and there's like crazy people in all the
rooms she looks in one room and there's
this dude just like jerking off that
like looks back at her yeah very eerily
similar to a scene from Silence of the
Lambs
the dummy paint homage to from beyond
it's very very similar that was a really
clever sequence in this because later
it's Barbara Crampton theory that all
people with schizophrenia or some people
with schizophrenia might have an
overactive pineal gland right they may
be seen these other worlds that we don't
see right and they they can't interact
with them and it drives them crazy and
so you see a lot of great setup because
you have people like talking about like
oh the monsters there's so many of them
in here and you have someone who's hyper
sexual you have you have crazy people
and then later when we know it's all
real they and it they show those same
symptoms there's monsters everywhere
they're hyper sexual and I thought that
was incredibly clever yeah well that's
what separates both re-animator in this
movie from a lot of other kind of B
movies of that era other Empire movies
even like this movie is on a higher
level than Ghoulies because of that
because of the clever writing which is
Denis Paoli who are both these movies
and is written several other movies for
Stuart Gordon those guys are just I mean
they're making B movies unapologetically
but there's a little bit smarter than
you would expect if there's a
statistical correlation between
schizophrenia and an enlarged pioneer
why they may be seeing or feeling what
we saw their minds may be influenced by
those creatures well how about the
hard-on I got is there statistical
correlation for that too and well the
great thing is you're not even thinking
about the fact that 90 percent of this
movie is all taken place in the same
house set because the visuals are so
like you get distracted we're like and
that's obviously that was a budget thing
is like I will shoot the whole movie on
this one set basically this house set
but there's so much happening
that you're not even thinking about that
like at all like we've watched somebody
again go back to the best of the worst
movies where they have like just one or
two locations and you get so tired of
those same locations and that doesn't
happen here no well not when you have
goop monster exactly ever-evolving goop
monsters just bodies are gross that's
that's the real takeaway and that's you
know David Cronenberg is sort of the
king of body or and but I think Stewart
Goran you know he's got a leg up to as
far as just really letting you know how
disgusting the human body can be so then
you know famously Stuart Gordon went on
to write Honey I Shrunk the Kids well of
course I mean I'm sure Disney saw from
beyond and is like we got to get that
guy the story is though because and this
is we'll talk a little bit about Stuart
Gordon because I think he's a really
underappreciated genre filmmakers people
of course you know they talk about Sam
Raimi with Evil Dead movies there's
plenty of like you know David Cronenberg
as I mentioned and Stuart Gordon doesn't
really get the props that I think he
deserves because he you will not find a
more versatile filmmaker in the realm of
B movies he's made so many movies that
are so different from each other I mean
compare these two movies go together
yeah but compare them to like robot
jocks which is like a fun kids Saturday
morning adventure movie basically yeah
he did a movie called fortress which is
the the best Paul Verhoeven movie that
Paul Verhoeven ever made
and then you gets it yeah he was
supposed to direct honey i shrunk the
kids him and brian use know who produced
you know from beyond nori animator they
have this idea for this movie about
these kids that shrink and they sold it
to disney the stuart gordon was supposed
to direct it and the reason he backed
out is because he could not handle being
in a room with these disney suits they
had like a like a pre-production meeting
and he literally got a nosebleed from
having to deal with these assholes and
so he backed away and so he didn't
direct it and that like just shows like
that is like not where his mind is his
you know he wants to do these weird
smaller creative things and so he went
on to do all these like and the last few
movies he's done he's essentially
retired from directing now he still does
theater stuff he did a one-man show with
Jeffrey Combs as Edgar Allen Poe is all
that we see will seem but agree the last
like three movies he did before he kind
of stopped directing I'm so far removed
from where he started me a few blocks
away there are these really kind of
grounded realistic really really dark
dramas do you think you are I'm talking
to you
your what am i a stone did I say I want
to lick your pussy I said my mother had
that same hand you can't what am i a dog
I'd like to sweat
fucking face I'd like to slash your
motherfucking face our part you don't
know who I am
everybody in this town is same so far
removed from from goopy penis monsters
you know I only know him from Honey I
Shrunk the Kids to be honest because
like that was the big movie but like you
can see like you can see a direct
connection between reanimate er from
Beyond and Honey I Shrunk the Kids the
care that you can put into that kind of
fantasy yeah like well and weird sort of
science stuff yeah these are classic B
movies done with a kind of sincerity so
anyway yeah that's reanimate ER and from
beyond I think it's a perfect Halloween
time double feature absolutely yeah you
have a party drink some beer and weird
out your friends that's the semester
that reminds me of the way Joe Bob
Briggs described do remember Joe Bob
Briggs monster visions
I remember watching it one time he was
playing the fly the Jeff Goldblum the
fly yeah and he described it as so great
movie too gross your sister out with it
and that's he cats these movies too you
know shut the blinds you don't want
people like walking past your house and
see seeing some weird stuff seeing a
skinny dick popping out of a forehead ya
know make sure everyone knows what
they're up for I go or don't or don't
that's actually better that's you know
what you're right that's absolutely hey
guys we're gonna watch some Halloween
movie still just pop this in and then
lock the door behind you
