Aug 26, 2017
Blind Fury
youtube.com/watch?v=2vPRZ8enOoU
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/901536133250768900
redlettermedia.com/blind-fury-review

hi I'm rich Evans and I am with special
guests lenka Basinski and today we're
here to talk about the most critically
acclaimed movie starring Rutger Hauer of
course I am talking about blind fury
today on review what solon blunt blind
fury 1989 gree starring wrecker Hauer
he is a blind swordsman who is looking
up his old friend from Vietnam who has
got involved with drug dealer and then
he him and a little kid they they go on
an adventure and they kill a bunch of
people with swords that is correct yes
Rutger Hauer playing obviously he was in
movies like a split second if anybody's
seen that split second I really really
enjoyed this is like mid mid the
midpoint of the Rutger Hauer like
downward spiral he he started with Blade
Runner and then you know you go to
hitchhiker or lady hog blind fury split
second Omega Doom blind fury is my pink
it's a great frickin movie it did not do
well in the box office
no but it was a theatrical they could
get a theatrical release yeah ten
million to make it made 2.5 yeah and
that's a shame I share your love for
this movie going more into cast there is
shoku's oggi who is in the movie I know
you're gonna talk about it man I'm gonna
try to pronounce it through my
impediment III you know what you're
worried about seeing things I will make
you look good and then meg Foster meg
Foster and shockingly she is not playing
a blind person in a movie called blind
fury
also known as evil in a villain yeah
sure they live she's in they live she's
a villain
yep she's a villain in that which
normally she's a protagonist usually so
yeah there's our cast set up pretty much
Rutger Hauer is a Vietnam vet and him
and his buddy back in Vietnam we're just
about to go home and you know but you
know how that always ends up going right
and that's a good point is he's blinded
in Vietnam Rutger Hauer was in work
Terry Quinn was his Vietnam buddy and
something happens and I think he
chickens out or something like that
Terry O'Quinn runs or something
as it's going bad Terry Quinn abandons
him and Rutger Hauer left there alone
and he gets blinded and left missing in
action and he has taken in by Vietnamese
old ancient pastor at the village
you know in the the classic training
montage type stuff and it's a fun little
like it's super good news they're
throwing like a melon melons at his head
in the early scenes but he's not good
with the swords like hitting him in the
head yeah that yeah the training montage
is awesome in the movie for sure and
then then then 20 years later Rutger
Hauer has learned to be a badass he's
learned to navigate the world as a blind
man he still kind of looked like wrecker
Howard so so you know Rutger Hauer he
gets back from Vietnam and he's going to
track down Terry O'Quinn who was on Star
Trek The Next Generation and he wants to
make amends for what happened in Vietnam
but when he tracks him down you know he
finds his wife and kid but he's
separated he's somewhere else and
suddenly gang members burst in they try
to kidnap the kid
and we're introduced to you know Randall
Tex Cobb who is the perfect counterpoint
to a guy with a sword he's a fat guy
with a gun even says and they contrast
perfectly Rutger Hauer is now stuck with
this kid whose mother just died and he's
trying to reunite him with his dad it
was his Vietnam buddy and so he's going
to Vegas and we find out that Terry
O'Quinn has been forced by mobsters to
use his chemistry knowledge to do like
designer drugs for them and the mobsters
want to kidnap the kid so they could
force him to keep working for them and
the his buddy is Terry near the Terry
O'Quinn character basically left him to
get blown up or whatever yeah but he's
he's out for forgiveness not revenge
this is not a revenge picture he is this
is a forgiveness picture so let's talk
about some of the fight scenes in the
film
you have Rick or Hauer and there's
almost a little bit of slapstick style
to some of the fight scenes there's the
early one in the bar and it's the ups
oops and then they fall over each other
I'm blind I don't know what I'm doing
but it's acting the nuts with them you
know yeah he's accidentally beating
everybody up so so there is some comedy
to the film I think that's kind of
sprinkled throughout the whole the whole
movie pretty much there's the the
classic scene where they get off I think
they're on a bus they get off the bus
and Brennan call had gives obviously
they have a tedious relationship at
first he gives them a rock and saying it
was candy
was a nice little boy inside of you son
don't be a dick when you're around blind
people yeah but I've been you know he's
blind but it's like they did like the
daredevil his his senses his other
senses are are much better or like he's
at the casino right and he has his ears
can hear like the the beeping of the
device that's got the bill right yeah I
think some of the things that separates
it from other blind swordsman type stuff
is definitely the way they play out the
comedy and stuff in the choreography in
the movie well Rutger Hauer actually he
does a really good job of acting blind
oh I agree yeah like he never
accidentally that I that I've noticed he
never accidentally like makes eye
contact with somebody
colorful henchmen is something that
always stuck out to me about this movie
well what about very really easy just to
have like a army of just guys in suits
to wear generic and didn't say anything
right right but they give
characterization just a little bit too
like henchmen who die in like one or two
scenes like like this the the cornfield
fight even running through the corn and
one of the one of the henchmen just is a
hillbilly that's eating popcorn with
like a shotgun on his shoulder
shoot yeah I was just gonna say that
with the henchmen like you said they'd
give them colorful characters there they
have a lot of comedy bits - how do you
feel about the blind cart chase
yeah I think again little things like
this make the movie unusual for you know
it separates it from all those other you
know your typical blind swordsman
martial art type movie well it's it's
it's smart enough not to take itself too
seriously
well without becoming a complete joke
this movie has fun with the premise like
yeah I know our hero's blind we'll have
you know he's gonna we're gonna have car
chase don't take it too seriously they
treat it you know he plays it cool
that was fun
maybe I should get my license again why
don't they look like action movies at
the time guns serious action and like I
said this is a break from that in this
way it's a little bit lighter it's
probably closer in tone to like a Jackie
Chan movie sure yeah I would agree with
that
yeah and then and you have guys that I
don't believe he has a fight scene but
certainly could fight is Randall Tex
Cobb I don't think he has a fight scene
in that movie I know that like
fisticuffs know right and normally he
you would he can obviously I mean he's a
real-life you know legit fighter but um
so he doesn't fight in it you've got
show that shows up at the end basically
to fight him around us what is it up hot
tub or something he fights them around
some kind of thing
oh well I noticed work burger Hauer in
this movie Wayne he uses or he's got
this really like me it's really weird
this okay like underhanded sword stance
with the blades like going down does
that have a name but I mean those kinds
of grips on weapons and things like he's
doing you would have like Filipino knife
fighting which I don't know if you want
to call it a martial art or not but they
use underhand Steven Seagal does it in
under siege okay uses the knives and
he's going around with Tommy Lee Jones
right at the end of the movie he's using
underhand grip on his knives as he's
slicing up Tommy Lee Jones and at the
end of our stage
it's weird ass like I guess they go to
his mansion the the drug dealers mansion
correct well it's very lifts because it
sounded like you take a ski lift to get
there and then the second stage and
there's also like a hot tub room the
other area yeah he's like the doctor and
Aqua Teen Hunger Force he's just some
weird dude what's up in a castle on a
mountain somewhere but then they get
like ambushed and this is his old friend
Terry O'Quinn he abandons Rutger Hauer
again not dot dot again again and then
Rutger Hauer he wanders out it's like
for the blind man it's like the worst
situation possible he's like tripping
over like like music he quit right after
I was gonna say it goes on to the dance
and then there's a microphone there and
it's making all this noise and oh he's
fucked he's fucked
and you think his friend to band them
again but then he actually he didn't
abandon him here and alike yank the the
lights out and made them blind it made
everything look like I don't know now
you're playing a Rutger Hauer world
it's a fun scene but it's supposed to be
pitch black and you can you can clearly
see everything that's going on you know
you'd think of me that scene with it
where the picture goes black and just
your soundtrack no no it's just really
like stylized lighting you can see
everything that happens yes
you know I'm trying to figure out why
why this movie failed because I'm in
love with this movie this is one is
actually one of my favorite action films
this is interesting then they say why it
would fail we could we could analyze
this and pick this apart a little bit it
came out in March of 89 and the summer
of 89 was insane you had no Batman and
lethal weapon 2 and Ghostbusters 2 every
last crusade
I wonder everything get buried just just
because that year no those were all
pretty much highly publicized recent
lecture he was never gonna cut the line
on but but in my mind is it better than
all those we share I like it I'm not
saying it's better than I'm saying I'm
saying it's better that's what you're
competing with my theory was right
around that time and we're talking 89
this straight to tape stuff we're
starting to gain steam I talked about
movies like no retreat no surrender to
all these things are like low-budget yes
but they're on that cusp of like million
dollar budgets and blind fury has that
feel to it even though the cast has done
several a list a list movies out of them
I think it was on the cusp of being too
low budget for obviously the company to
push over those other summer movies you
would mention but also I feel the actors
too a lot of them were on the way out of
Maine linemen name of name a meg Foster
movie after 1989 now we could say Terry
O'Quinn now he so Terry O'Quinn went on
to do big things yeah he had some
staying power from his his stepfather
blind fury type days lucker you would
manage it was like it's like on the way
down it's like he's still a big name but
I think most of Hollywood had realized
that he wasn't going to be a big draw in
and of himself I think your theory
definitely could be correct
my theory would be the straight to tape
stuff started to gain more steam in
blind fairies kind of in the middle well
you know like for the time for an
american-made action movie it's it's
very different like 80 in the period up
with the 80s it was big muscles big guns
or there's washing taker Stallone but
let's say this about blank fury though
it is a martial arts movie yes I mean
yeah the public wasn't probably ready to
accept Rutger Hauer as this martial
artist when you had Van Damme and Segal
and you know Chuck Norris was still you
know doing theatrical releases been and
you know Rutger Hauer is not the first
name you think of probably in martial
arts but but big guns were a thing and
get like blind very very much
he's like a blind swordsman it's a great
character
I love his character in the movie and
one of the things I like about the
character too is his interactions were
Brandon call who plays the the son of
Terry O'Quinn in the movie I think it
it's good it has that that 80's TV feel
to the relationship I think but um but
yeah and then you get into some of the
violence of the film and then you know
it's not a TV movie you can talk about
like Rutger Hauer not being a martial
arts guy but then again try and picture
Van Damme doing the emotional scenes
with the kid and you're trying to figure
out what yeah it wouldn't happen yeah
I'm sorry
your mom is dead trying not to cry too
much something like that yeah Van Damme
couldn't pull that off yeah I think
Ryker hours a good choice in the movie I
think he's awesome in it but yeah in
terms of why it failed and things like
that yeah you know people back then they
didn't want a Rutger Hauer martial art
movie and it's not it's not 100% like a
it's not like a 100 percent kung fu
movie either because he's a guy with a
sword but it's not like everybody is
fighting with martial martial arts it's
like one guy with a sword versus a bunch
of people with guns it's almost like a
hybrid like Bruce Lee movie versus what
I like mixed with a horse nigger running
around with guns thing it's part martial
arts and part gun violence like I said
about the choreography in this movie is
that they treat it there's comedic
there's slapstick elements to this and
you don't see that in a lot of these
style pictures
I also do see I mean I can definitely
see stuff like it's more comedic
obviously and not the dramatic stuff of
kung-fu with David Carradine but I can
see some parallels to the character
there between David Carradine's and
Rutgers in this movie they're the one
during the ramp I mean obviously now in
an urban setting for Rutgers so well
it's actually it's actually directly
based off of a series of Japanese films
as a character in Japanese cinema zato
Ichi I believe his name is just a blind
swordsman but he wanders around feudal
Japan not not Las Vegas circa 1989 but
yeah I think people should watch the
movie I think it's a great movie that
God just passed over and like you said
varied around Batman and all those other
movies that were coming out at that time
so on well I mean it's a shame I didn't
go were you like compared to like the
stuff Steven Seagal was doing at the
time and this is so much more fun it
notes and more fun than like hard to
kill out for justice prone to violence
George Lucas blatantly rips off the
ending of this movie because Randall Tex
Cobb dies exactly the same way that
Darth Maul did
he gets cut in half at the waist and
then he falls down it wasn't a shaft it
was off a comically deep cliff while his
two halves are flopping about like
George Lucas is ripping off blind fury a
movie that made 2.5 million dollars in
1989 so out of that 2.5 million that
watched it George bought a ticket and he
saw and he said you know what this is
fuckin awesome
hey I don't think you're gonna sell this
movie to people by claiming that it's
responsible for the Phantom Menace
