Jan 9, 2017
True Stories
youtube.com/watch?v=m_vze4K-x5g
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/818481763735498753
redlettermedia.com/true-stories-review

hello and welcome back to review I'm
back with Josh and we're talking about a
movie that I don't think a lot of people
have ever heard about I'm a huge Talking
Heads fan and I didn't know about this
movie until you brought it to my
attention however many years ago now not
uncommon uncommon as it turns up
it's called true stories directed by
David Byrne mm-hmm I didn't really still
the end credits rolled that it was
co-written by Stephen Tobolowsky well it
turns out that he actually didn't do a
lot of riding on it it's just they were
friends and David Byrne didn't want it
to seem like it was a total like like if
I do it right exactly so it's just like
can you put your name on the script and
the movies about while it's explained in
just the opening title yep just the
opening credit this out here this is
Virgil Texas their celebrations going to
happen this Friday they're going to have
a parade that runs down the Main Street
in the morning and then outside of town
that night they're going to have a
talent show it's their sesquicentennial
and they're having a celebration of
specialness they're calling it a
celebration of special mess and and our
tour guide through all this is David
Byrne and a cowboy hat
radio receptions right here got a very
large hat and a bolo tie and a large red
convertible that is not his but it's not
a rental it's privately owned I have
something to say about the difference
between American and European cities I
forgot what it is
I've written down at home somewhere
although that's not a the movies not a
traditional narrative it is just sort of
a slice-of-life showing all these people
the the small town they're all very
eccentric there's uh John Goodman yes it
was a bachelor that wants to get married
I love the women there's more to life
than this job no offense you understand
I'm no swinger not Lois I want to settle
down and share it would be beautiful to
the point where he's making television
happy I'm 6 foot 3 inches tall and
maintain a very consistent panda bear
shape consistent panda bear shape
there's the town compulsive liar mm-hmm
she wrote all the songs for Elvis yes
and a half of the ones for the Beatles I
think part of my extra psychic abilities
connected up with the fact that I was
born with the tail a little bitty hairy
thing about that long had it surgically
removed when I was just five years old
my mama kept it in the fridge or up in
the medicine cabinet right between the
four week old habits and monkey blood
I'd get up every morning first thing I'd
go in there in the bathroom brush my
teeth and stare at money hang out with
the Sun duh and she was dating JFK and
so on and so forth yeah and anything
that's happening in the movie when it
cuts to her she has some sort of story
about how she's connected to you
basically Spalding Gray is he the mayor
he's basically like the rich businessman
okay so he's in a position of power but
it's more of a like a benefactor sort of
thing like he's he single-handedly
brought very core to Virgil Texas and
very core is the big tech company where
everybody works yes this is the very
core building just outside Virgil it's
cool it's a multi-purpose shape a box
and then his wife who he never
communicates directly with will you
asked your father to pass this down to
our guest
this looks great mrs. Culver
dan will you pass this down played by I
didn't realize this until rewatching it
was like that's the real estate lady
from beetlejuice
yeah she's barely in anything but yeah
those are two more she's the main feet
lead female in howleen - your sister is
a werewolf that's right starring
Christopher Lee yes and featuring a
werewolf threesome I highly recommend
howling - your sister is a werewolf um
there's uh he Kurtz is the woman that
doesn't want to get out of her bed she's
so rich she doesn't have to and she has
a robot servant dogs come ten to a pack
and buns in packs of eight or twelve you
gotta buy nine packs to make them all
match up that's what I'm talking about
so it's just yeah just this town full of
eccentrics um and that's it it's just
kind of a series of vignettes there is a
loose plot mostly centered around John
Goodman's character he's the closest to
having him in the Suzy Kurt's character
having any sort of arak yes and it's
very small it's very minimal but it's
there yeah I mean that's that's the main
story arc is Lois fine the dancing bear
he's good he's excited to sing a song at
the talent show and he's looking for
love and he goes on a little journey
yeah you know I'm very aware of my
appearance
Wow just check these are that here this
is great yeah
although David brain was always there
just sort of on the wings explaining
what's happening and here's my question
about David Byrne his performance in
this movie is he aware of how funny he
is there's one shot of him driving his
car all the shots of him driving the car
while narrating it's like processed
background jobs very obviously yes but
there's one shot where he's the steering
wheel is just going nuts
yep it's fancy driving all right yes
until just off yeah it's just the one
shot it was like why is that in there
I'm assuming it's just he figured out
what the lever was and loosened it was
just like mmm go with it
it's fancy driving all right I mean it's
it's and it's a little cut see he's also
very centering in the movie too just
because he's your guide through
everything that's going on I bet you've
seen me here before it took me a long
time that was one of the big questions
is is he doing this on purpose and does
he feel the same way about his
characters that I do yeah because it's
it's it could definitely be read along
that line of just like is he making fun
of these people that this yeah well that
goes into yeah another whole question is
where does he genuinely like these
people like these characters have an
affinity for these characters as both
the director and the narrator you know
when you're singing your eye sockets go
back in your head and it makes your eyes
get baby what about my music it's awful
sad I couldn't have that kind of sadness
of my life do you really feel that way I
never thought about it maybe I am kind
of sad I like sad songs they make me
want to lie on the floor and I do think
he gets it some of it is is really some
of that dialogue that he has is really
beautiful and just kind of this general
philosophical thing where he's in the
mall and it just kind of philosophizing
just like what the mall means and this
is
uh 86 I want to say yeah it easy yeah so
malls are still pretty big thing yeah
they're not what they are now
but they were more than what you know
like malls were coming into their own
and it was the town center and he's kind
of going on about that shopping itself
has become the activity it brings people
together in here music so let's blue
what time is it no time to look back
it's like that's a goofy line but it's
also really interesting in cities well
it's the way he delivers it is so
endearing yeah there's so much of the
movie where there's parts of it where
it's hard to tell if it's being
satirical or if it's being genuine and
though but it's his delivery is kind of
like the glue that holds it all together
where it it doesn't come across like
condescending or like like he's mocking
these things so much as he's just sort
of observing it yeah just this is the
way things are he does care about these
characters it's meant to be endearing
but it's still a step back yeah it's
always a step back because he is the
observer right and looking at it with a
with a more anthropological eye there's
some like some of the other characters
like Spalding Gray is in the film
if you're not familiar with Spalding
Gregg seek out some of his spoken word
stuff he's a great storyteller yeah
there's a fantastic there are a number
of filmed versions of his stuff but
swimming to Cambodia is really good one
monster in a box is a good one swimming
to Cambodia is about his experiences
going to shoot the killing fields which
he has a small part in it's the kind of
thing I never when I was younger I never
thought I would be into oh but he's such
a good storyteller like even as I
started listening to him as a teenager
and I was like this is not the kind of
thing I would think I would like but
he's just so engaging
yeah and it's it's and it's very funny
but it's like he can also be very dark
well we begin I want to just tell you a
little story that I heard about Texas
recently in a local tavern and it seems
though God was working around the earth
here trying to make it beautiful to
psych the rest of the world he he had to
knock off because it was nighttime and
he said and I'll come back tomorrow and
make it just as pretty as the rest of
the world with lakes and streams and
mountains and trees and he got
back the next day and he saw that the
ground had completely hardened like
concrete and he didn't want to begin all
over again
no in His infinite wisdom he had an idea
he said I know what I'll do
I'll make some people that like it this
way he makes some very interesting
choices during the movie um yeah there's
the whole setup of he's the rich guy in
town he does not speak to his wife
directly they speak with their children
yes they talk to the and it's very it's
it's it's it's tender in its way it's
just like oh I bet that's a good time
you tell your mother I bet that was a
good time and you know it's not
mean-spirited at all it's just that they
just don't talk to each other well
that's that's the scene I wanted to
bring up if this is the town and here is
the workplace with its goods Spalding
Gray goes into this whole my favorite I
think my favorite part of the whole
movie is monologue about you know this
is the town this is the factory this is
the way the system has always been is
you work in the factory in a typical
nine-to-five job but now things are
changing no all that started to change
scientists and engineers are moving off
from those large operations like very
cool and they're beginning to start
their own companies marketing new
inventions use me mr. Culver
I forgot what these peppers represent
people are starting their own businesses
and weekends don't exist anymore and all
that for the time being it's created
confusion and chaos they don't work for
money anymore but to earn a place in
heaven which is a big motivating factor
once upon a time believe you me they're
working and inventing because they like
it which is something that I could not
relate to fifteen years ago but now I
completely get oh yeah I and and it's it
almost feels ahead of its time but the
way he delivers it almost seems like
it's supposed to be satirical but I
don't think it is there are certain
parts of it that do feel like I mean the
whole thing we hold of the asparagus
like like up to heaven it's got those
beets in it but a lot of the rest of
that monologue is so nonsensical Linda
Larry there's no concept of weekends
anymore
and it just it ends with that it's just
like what's your point it's it's a
vignette within a vignette yeah which is
like this is what's happening now that's
the whole point of that monologue and
then they all just put their heads down
and that's the end of the scene it's
great
yeah I also love that it's set up almost
like a musical number in terms of like
the music swells up let me show you what
I think is going on something wrong with
your sister and then the lights come
down like the lobster and the other
plates click on the lobster starts
spinning around and it's yeah there's a
whole lot of artifice there where there
isn't in other parts of the movie and so
that really sets it all apart you
mentioned that feels like a musical like
it's going to be a musical number and
then there are actual musical numbers
yes
but the movie is not really a musical a
lot of times in true stories there's it
makes sense that there's music happening
here because there's the scene in the
carrier and they're like the lip sync
car which is like it's like karaoke but
they just lip sync but that's a big
thing in that town whatever that's fine
so obviously there should be music
playing you know happening there there's
the talent show so there's all sorts of
music happening there yeah then why does
why does any macro start singing during
the fashion show why not
yes
thank God she does that's another one of
my favorite scenes yeah yeah The Fast
Show so good the for the fashions are
completely bonkers
and wonderful it's just like people are
dressed as lawns and and columns and all
these things and she's just singing this
this wonderful beautiful completely
empty song feels like the real world
observed by an alien and this is like an
alien's interpretation of normal people
yes because everything's weird but not
too far yeah and everything's
everything's weirder in small towns but
just a little weirder you know just it's
just characters it's cool the most
surreal it gets is little touches like
the there are something like 40 pairs of
twins in the movie twins yeah it's Carol
and Daryl I knew their mom in high
school too a twin they're just there I
noticed once there was like one set of
twins and I was looking out mean stuff
about the movie afterwards I know it's
loaded with twins
we are they you start seeing them
eventually there are more in the mall
scene there in the audience of the
talent show the talent show is where it
gets the most surreal but the all the
other talents in the talent show are
like you can see them actually being
some sort of small-town 80s talent thing
there's a giant head eating a giant
corncob that's made of balloons and all
every once in a while the butter dances
by it's like somebody came up with that
shirt yeah sure or or let's have this
weird mime thing where all our arms are
a person and I like that one a lot yeah
though we are like silhouette things
yeah yeah well I've been like it and
just like traveling or driving through
cities and you stop like you know to get
a bite to eat or something I've been in
that situation where I'm in a weird town
completely removed from you know the
areas I'm usually surrounding myself and
you're sitting there and you're
observing the people and it feels so odd
yeah you feel so out of place and they
feel like aliens but they're just doing
their normal day-to-day stuff like this
is just their lives but it's so far
removed from the people I surround
myself with or I'm like it's been more
weird yeah and then if they were to come
to Milwaukee and see us in our
environment they'd say those people are
weird why don't they tell jokes about
God and put their hands up by their
armpits job hardens oh it's it's the
kind of movie where that'll throw you
off for a second and then you won't stop
laughing just why is he doing that I
don't know I don't know doesn't matter
it doesn't matter is it is it first at
least for some people is it like
quirkiness overload too much it might be
too much for some people yeah I mean and
that's why I say you've got to go in
expecting it to be genuine and guileless
because yeah if you're going with it you
know as a cynic you're gonna get annoyed
I guess yeah if that's how you interpret
it I can see people watching this and
thinking it's like like a hipster type
thing yeah where he's looking down on
these people and that's not how I
interpret it but I can see people maybe
looking at it like that
yeah I think actually the opening
monologue has a bleak does a good job of
setting up how you're supposed to feel
this is where the town begins this part
of the country has been through a lot of
changes and then all of a sudden it's
it's dinosaurs and oceans and and Native
Americans and technology and it's just
this is the stock footage yes
this giant setup of just like here's
what happened to the last hundred fifty
years yeah and now we're going to this
town and then he steps through the
screen got the screen working with
projections and they just walks into it
and then he's in the movie with you
which is it's just great that this setup
is initially that the artifice of the
stage and then just here we go yeah
the various plot lines sort of all
culminate in the talent show the movie
eventually just sort of draws everything
together but very you know not very
obviously as is it yeah it's very for a
movie where it's just sort of an uh just
all these this collection of characters
to have any sort of resolution to
anything no it happens very naturally
yes is nice and the music is fantastic
all the way through
obviously the songs themselves there's a
really great commercial parody montage
but also the soundtrack music is really
good all the way through there are
different versions of those same songs
like the the dream operator from the
from the fashion show is later on a
glass harmonica another string quartet
there's a version of City of Dreams
which is the closing song
in the same
which is the best song to xou it it's
really great yeah that's played a lap
steel earlier on and just just over like
a quiet night scene
yeah I like that shot yeah yeah and it's
it's it's artful without being already a
lot of that movie yeah and then yeah and
that's what I really noticed in
rewatching it is that nothing about it
is like show-off ii or or like over to
more stylized than it needs to be and
when it's doing that it's doing it to be
silly yeah and that's just the only
reason it's not it's not a show-off you
movie at all yeah it's just it seems
like that's what david byrne found in
music how did this movie get made how
did David Byrne come to make a movie
because it was like a studio movie yeah
it was Warner Brothers how did that
happen I think I mean I think it I think
it was involved in Warner Brothers
Records renegotiating Talking Heads
contract but it's just I it never gets
old for me
and I've shown it to so many people it's
one of those things or if you hang
around me long long enough you'll see it
see when I'm drunk and I'm just melding
all the words entire film that what
exactly how I am with Ghoulies three
Ghoulies go to college
