Apr 6, 2017
Demolition Man
youtube.com/watch?v=NUPJBL1nGW4
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/850072624982106113
redlettermedia.com/demolition-man-review

so Jack today we're here to talk about
demolition man demolition man was the
the 1991 semester Stallone action movie
demolition man probably has one of my
favorite film premises of all time okay
you haven't seen it you're not familiar
with it it takes place in a future where
we're like Society has changed to be
more politically correct more more
polite it's everything in the future is
safe and sanitized for your protection I
just don't feel like there's anything
special about me you are an incredibly
sensitive man who inspires joy joy
feelings in all those around you and and
none of the bad thoughts have to come to
your head and anything that might be bad
for you is is illegal up to and
including swearing which leads to the
possibly the greatest running gag in any
movie ever gone how whether goddamn good
you are buying one credit my vile Asian
of the verbal morality oh fuck you and
they keep it going almost a whole film
thanks a lot you shit
you will just hear it quietly in the
background and well and it's it's a
speaking of it as a science fiction film
it is a deep and fully realized world
this world that is so safe and the
people in this world become such such
sheep that have never known anything
that is harsh and when when some kind of
threat comes along like just just a
gangster just one ordinary gang member
is released into this world and they are
completely incapable of handling it it's
great
police officers we're trained to handle
this kind of violence and so they have
to call in the old cop who brought him
down Sylvester Stallone and actually
that leads us to like giant logic hole
number one which is uh the movie start
in 1996 in the in the far future of five
years after the movie was made right and
and la is a hellhole and all the cops
are rough what doesn't make sense is in
the span of 30 some years not only has
the entire societal paradigm shifted to
everyone being polite in politically
correct but even people who are old
enough to be around back in the 90s seem
to act as if they never happen the movie
needed to take place 250 years in the
future correct you have characters like
his hard as nails police chief who who
can't understand his caveman ways yet is
clearly old enough to have been alive
during his Davis clearly old enough to
understand his caveman way exactly
sixes why didn't they just set it 200
years in the future it's like I only did
it for the sake of he could run into
that one guy he used to know
I remember when you were not knows
working planet they finally grounded me
shit in the vert at the very least it
could have been the full 70 years of the
sentence they would have evidently you
want as much time in there as possible
for the society shifted be believable
well but you know just how they set up
the cop their uniforms their weapons the
way the look the cars the car and the
cars great they're beautiful they
actually they look almost like what
we're seeing future cars look like now
with the with the wing doors and
self-driving capabilities
it all looks great and cleaned out that
one cop who has the little device that
tells him how to deal with criminal
meaning he's responded with a scornful
remark approach and repeat ultimatum in
an even firmer tone of voice and the
words for ounce say it again but more
assertive it's that that early part of
the movie is by far the best times the
part of the movie where they're playing
up to the premise of the future that
can't handle one simple gang member yeah
because they're so baby is brilliant and
then it kind of starts to devolve into a
Sylvester Stallone action vehicle
you know one buckle look I have to have
yeah yeah my sci-fi half hates that part
of it because they they completely
forget about their entire world during
the last action sequence but the guy who
loves action shellac really loves that
half it's not great action schlock oh
it's fun oh is it the end there big end
fight they have a giant laser they have
a free beam ton of punching shooting
it's fun you know what a lot of great
performances all around Sandra Bullock
plays it perfectly yeah
perhaps you'd like to hear an oldies
station Odie's this is the most popular
station in town wall-to-wall mini tunes
you call the commercials her partner Oh
Benjamin Pratt he plays a great when
he's like singing the the old commercial
tunes in the car because the future
everyone loves like commercial jingles
that's popular music in the future of 35
years from now no ever everyone is
giving really genuine performance except
for semestre Stallone who is the star
but he's wrong hey Luke Skywalker will
use the Force oh yeah and what the hell
is this this needs to be built around
the premise not around a vehicle for
another Stallone action film Emma strong
on fire this demolition man they they
focused in the wrong spot and you see
that in the name the name doesn't really
relate to the being of the weird future
world the name is the demolition man
it's a superhero film there yeah no no
it no it shouldn't be that that should
not have been the focus I really think
somewhere along the early development
line this was kind of meant as a satire
though you know they talked about
president Schwarzenegger they make
reference to Jackie Chan movies there's
a Lethal Weapon 3 poster they name-drop
other movies and so clone Sloan in
Arnolds they had a friendly rivalry
going
throughout the 80s and 90s exactly well
but I guess that's my point is the the
filmmaker the writer or the director had
a love of these schlocky action movies
and because the references are woven
into the script I really look at a lot
of the schlock as a bit of parody
unfortunately it never reaches the point
where it's actual parody but I think
they were I think that's what they were
trying for sure but I think I think the
key issue for me is though action movie
parody and not science fiction future
parody was was somebody's focus yeah it
gets a little muddled yeah I feel like a
lot of the actions weekly I mean Wesley
Snipes terrific performance terrific for
basically and you know this is my second
review now both with Wesley snipe movies
I don't know why that is
you are now entering the role of Han his
birth or his middle action sequence with
Sylvester in the the hot what do they
call that the history of museums Lowe's
is a museum but it was like a violin
swing to the museum
remember with violence with a thing Noah
greedy what seems to be your bundle not
bomb here's a nice touch trap like
Wesley Snipes in the museum is clearly
acting a little bit deranged like he
shoves somebody's head against the glass
wall and he starts kicking one of the
displays and the people around them are
so unaccustomed to violent behavior but
they're not afraid of him yet
and you know what it's 35 years from the
future we saw where la was a health tape
yeah so there must have been at least
another 10 years before we hit utopia
the earthquake was in 2010 okay so then
what are we dealing with here then we're
only dealing with 20-some years yes I
know I've used two hundred two hundred
minimum right for this change to take
place but we did it with what we got to
do over to that we all we got we got
what we got we got what we got
coordinate Carter's plan I'm the enemy
cuz I like to think I like to read I'm
at the freedom of speech the freedom of
choice I'm the kind of guy which is at
the greasy spoon and one to cheat I have
the people who stay for the Jumbo rack
of barbecue ribs with a side order gravy
fries I want I cholesterol how many
bacon and butter and buckets of cheese
okay Denis Leary who is basically
performing his stand-up material as a
character and once again this is the
problem because it's not an it's not in
the service of of selling the world it's
just Denis Leary doing a schtick
yes the plot is the guy the architect of
this super safe world Cocteau he wants
to get rid of Denis Leary he wants he
wants all the remnants of violence and
free thought to be wiped away so he has
set up Wesley snipe to be a violent
assassin for him how does he plan to
control Wesley Snipes after Wesley
Snipes has killed Denis Leary
this is the this is this is doomsday in
Batman vs Superman all right let's move
you kill Superman now what about you
giant rage monster that you've made well
like he I think there's some fun in
there the folly of his own arrogance
which is he is programmed Wesley Snipes
not to kill him but not anyone else and
Wesley Snipes cleverly gets around it
right will you please kill him
so I think I think he has also grown too
comfortable in his de Fora where he
didn't think ahead enough for that
jacked-up cutter brilliant yeah you know
I like I really like the thing about
demolition man is the structure is
rock-solid then you start into the
details and the movie falls apart yeah
yeah there's this whole story about
Denis Leary leading the underground
people above ground for the revolution
and finally at the police station
Denis Leary takes all of his people and
they they all meet the cops and alright
hey we're here to beat people and be
seen and then Sylvester Stallone goes
and fight Wesley Snipes all by himself
and the the team of ragtag bandits don't
do anything yes
also Cocteau the the guy the architect
is dead yeah and suddenly the whole
world is going to change how is he
holding this together they seem to
already be sheep he doesn't Cocteau
doesn't seem to be the key ingredient
holding this world together anymore and
my other problem with the world and the
world building yeah I don't have any
sense of what's going on outside of LA
it almost makes makes it sound like this
whole world is just la and nothing
exists in the rest of the United States
or in York nut about everything is just
like gone you do not realize that Taco
Bell was the only restaurant to survive
the franchise would go so now all the
restaurants we talk about no way what
maybe I just thought I would eat this
taco bell brand taco I think we should
incorporate taco Bruce taco balances in
all of our video you talk about a
restaurant let's talk about Taco Bell
arguably the thing that demolition man
is most famous for
it is the first time that the public
noticed product placement how could they
notice the product placement because it
was done so clumsily and so blatantly
now I'll just round to talk about now
the joke is in the future
Taco Bell won the fast-food wars
franchise the franchise way and now talk
about is the only restaurant which
presumably like is not just like there's
not just one restaurant in town all
fast-food all fancy restaurants all
diamo
is a fancy restaurant but the most the
most unbelievable thing in the film is
that Taco Bell would win a franchise war
they they are the first ones out no
other fighting dirty men they're
fighting dirty but they're the first
ones out Arby's Arby's and Wendy's are
first to go there got nothing Arby's yes
talk about is right behind them Wendy's
will outlast Taco Bell no because Taco
Bell has some strong allies Saco Bell
has KFC Taco Bell has Pizza Hut Taco
Bell has some homies and I think that if
they're their homies because they are
all desperately clean done for life
together exactly they're desperate so
like and obviously McDonald's isn't
going to go for Taco Bell first because
they're no threat to McDonald's
McDonald's was going after Burger King
right McDonald's doesn't have to where
they just have to let the rest fire it
out
McDonald's can stay the course yeah and
they will just weather it they've been
McDonald has to worry about subway you
know the French subway is trick people
into thinking that it's health food
well and so this is again where I like
to dip my toes into this was an early
attempt at satirizing vision rah because
there's product placement in every movie
movies are really expensive and they
need extra money to make them when you
have giant stars like Sylvester Stallone
apparently he had its own driving range
like that was one of his big requests
he needed a driving rain which when not
filming does that true that is true Wow
there's there's like a series of videos
where Denis Leary's is talking about
like a time on demolition are you
kidding yeah demolition man
giant piece of shit
Wesley Snipes was insane as he insisted
on doing all of his own action stuff and
then they wait until they wrapped him
and then they have the stunt guy come in
and redo all a hex and stuff semester
stolen had his own driving range and a
golf pro on duty for all 17 hours of
each day that was shot so he be stand
there in his science fiction epic going
he does us both movies cost a lot of
money they need corporate tie-ins to
fill in the budget gap most times these
are small little things like someone
picks up a Pepsi can and takes a drink
yes I'm watching the goddamn you
what are you watching a porno movie
people are paying $10 to see a movie a
little bit less at the time but if you
pay money to see a movie when you're
paying money for your product you don't
want to be advertised to agree and I
think demolition man was so blatant with
it that it irritated people the earliest
one that I can think of that had product
placement back to the future there is a
park bench this was California Raisins
on it and I heard this I think it's
might be on like the DVD commentary okay
first I'm going to behind the same stuff
raisin companies paid for that bench say
California Raisins on it but when they
filmed it the movie there was like a
dirty homeless man sleeping on the bench
and the California raisin people were
mad and they they gave them their money
back because it was a filthy homeless
person on the beds that they paid to
have their logo on that's great and
that's the earliest movie I can think of
it had product placement so super sloppy
handling of the product placement are
you you're the man Mandela effect like
the Berenstein bears and I iorry I and
it's not the way I thought it was Proust
there's a lot of people Jack who who
think that it wasn't talked about on
demolition magnums Pizza Hut I don't
know where this is going this is a new
fun fact I learned about demolition man
last night you know why there's some
people who have memories of it being
Pizza Hut instead of Taco Bell wire the
UK cut used Pizza Hut because Taco Bell
wasn't a thing my reward is dinner and
dancing at Taco Bell
I like Mexican food it in my rewarded
dinner and dancing a Pizza Hut
I mean hey I like a big fat piece of
paper come on and with all like the food
items that they're you know no because
the windows still say Taco Bell legs
they didn't go then it didn't put too
much effort into it I love this
lovely perfect on the action in this
movie is pretty fun they have a ton of
memorable action sequences like everyone
remembers the big car crash
with the foam filling up the car once
again that's a great world building
ultra safety world of course has like a
super airbag right that's like that's
great that that whole ending fight
sequence with Sylvester Stallone and
Wesley Snipes what least nice get the
big laser gun the action is is average
at best except
Wesley Snipes gets frozen and then
Sylvester Stalone kicks his shattered
head off but Anne says heads up Oh
Sylvester Stalone great excellent idea
for a movie but sylvester stallone was
he was at his worst
oh look artistically artistically enough
is it the low point of sylvester
stallone's career like go from rocky are
you forgetting about top or my mom will
shoot right on the same arrow right
right from writer on the same era is
that early 90s the low point for
sylvester stallone creatively he had a
at some point he realized oh my god what
am i doing and he tried to make Copland
but that was him trying to dig his way
out I got to do something art I have to
be serious again we'll see like I think
I think demolition man stop or my mom'll
shoot that was kind of a pivot toward
cashing in on his celebrity as an action
star yeah like hey this movie requires
like a big dumb action star to be a fish
out of water and that's that's what he
was that's that's why I think his big
dumb performance makes a lot of sense in
the movie ponies oh the wild mambo
there's a hunka-hunka I just need my
ultimate my ultimate feelings on
demolition man is that that detract from
what is just such an amazing science
fiction concept but you get to hear
Sylvester Stallone say hunka hunka the
science science fiction can little in
and just let you take humanity in terms
of these completely situations that
would normally be improbable or
impossible and let's let's see how it
plays out hmm it's a fish this ultra
save world that can't handle the
simplest of problems it is such a good
premise and it just turns into the old
so spooked officials or lawyers he shows
he doesn't know how to use the three
seashells
but you know this led to his uh his
eventual team-up with Rob Schneider in
Judge Dredd so we can thank demolition
man for that so that introduced him to
Rob Schneider so there we got that going
