Dec 7, 2017
Ed Wood
youtube.com/watch?v=Rm09nLK-Pg8
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/938901249516326914
redlettermedia.com/ed-wood-review

alright Jay let's shoot this fucker oh
that's a line from film what film while
Mike were here to talk about the 1994
film Ed Wood directed by Tim Burton
starring Johnny Depp and Jeffrey Jones
it's a much different time for all three
of those people now Oh Ed Wood is one of
my favorite films of all time I think
I've probably seen it 20 times or more
did you see it in the theater I didn't
see the movie in the theater this was
1994 but that same year earlier in that
year I think before I even knew about
the movie was right around the time that
I was getting into John Waters political
beliefs first-degree-murder advocate
cannibalism eat shit shelter my politics
belt is my life take whatever you like
yes renting a lot of his movies getting
really fascinated by him he's still I
think one of the most interesting unique
filmmakers ever but I read his book
shock value which talked about his early
days making movies and so I was reading
that and I had an entire John Waters
movie in my brain the structure of it
and everything and how it would be paced
out of like him kind of the people he
met along the way like he did Massey and
Devine and then the third act of the
movie would be the making of pink
flamingos and then I saw Ed Wood and I
said this is by John Waters movie it's
the exact same structure the specific
details are changed but it's the exact
same thing but I wanted to make about
John Waters
pankot print we're moving on that
cardboard headstone tipped over that
this graveyard is obviously phony nobody
will ever notice that filmmaking is not
about the tiny details it's about the
big picture were you aware of Ed Wood at
the time no I was not either cuz I've
heard people we're talking about this
because the disaster artist is coming
out soon and that's the only other kind
of comparable movie to this yeah
as far as a movie about the making of a
bad movie mm-hmm
you know the kind of legendarily bad
filmmaker but I've heard some people say
like oh why would anyone want to see the
disaster artists if they don't know
anything about the room or Tommy was so
yeah it's like well if it's a good movie
you don't have to be aware of these
things
ya know seeing Ed Wood I think it was
aware of the title plan 9 from outer
space and sort of that it was like the
famous bad movie but I never seen it you
know obviously well before my time
but watch that would and I'm like what
and then I went and I bought like I
think I think that it was caught in all
the hoopla
so they rereleased all of his movies on
VHS I think it was like the ink or a box
set there was a box set covered with
angora I don't think it was real angora
I think it's just pink fur it was just
pink furs
polyurethane fur but it was a gimmick
and they had a little documentary and
they're called a look through angora
life through angora I look back in anger
I look back in anger it has not made its
way to DVD or anything but I have a VHS
but still I don't think it's like a real
documentary I think I just slapped it
together it's it's a promotional because
it was released through Rhino rhino
records or Rhino productions or whatever
they're called and then you get to the
end of it it's like an hour long or
something and then you get to the end
it's also available from Rhino home
video of violent years jailbait orgy of
the Dead Knight of the ghouls and plan 9
from outer space by oles Ed Wood movies
also available from Rhino but it does
everyone to clips from movies I had
never seen before
oh yeah it's it's it was fun to go and
watch the real thing after watching the
Ed Wood movie it made you very curious
like you know right of the monster
playing 9 Glen or Glenda and then you're
just like oh I want to see what these
really were and then it made you
kind of it sparked your interest in the
whole process
it just it was a it was one of those
like filmmaker movies movies that for
people that like film yeah well and
people that have made no budget movies I
don't think we've made a single movie or
we have not quoted atwood throughout the
process at least a dozen times per day
yes we still quote this movie today I
mean that's part because of Johnny
Depp's performance the way he plays Ed
Wood and we'll get into that um how this
movie is not real life it's not the real
story right
this is the one this is the one I'll be
remembered for it's not a truly a
hundred percent accurate biographical
film about him it's it has some
theatrics and some drama oh yeah not see
to it and that's something to point out
as far as any sort of like biographical
movie you always see the people who
complain like well that didn't happen
this way or they change this that change
that it's like yes cuz it's a movie you
should not go into these types of movies
expecting a documentary no in this movie
in particular it's it's I'm almost told
from the sort of point of view of movie
made during the era that it takes place
all the performances are heightened
I've got incredible news you got the job
no I didn't get the job but something
better happened better than not getting
the job Johnny Depp especially but then
also like Sarah Jessica Parker every
everyone has that sort of jiggly theory
ER and a shot in black and white and
it's shot in black and white which will
we should probably get into the
cinematography too but overall yeah it's
a very heightened idealized version of
this couple years of Edwards life where
he befriended and made movies with Bela
Lugosi who was well past his prime what
is your next picture coming out
I have no next picture you gotta be
joking a great star like you you must
have dozens of them lined up the old
days yes
no no one gives two fucks for the very
left but yeah it's an overall excellent
film and it's perfect in its tone and
execution but but let's let's do a
little recap on who Ed Wood is was
before we get into the movie because
it's a biography so no who is this guy I
don't know a lot of people probably
heard the title plan 9 from outer space
maybe not much more I might have thought
some weird movie with Johnny Depp in it
it's in black and white a dead man well
that's right yeah that was already one
that scene Arion yeah and I want to
watch that weird stuff move on with my
life but Ed Wood made what was
considered to be the worst film of all
time plan 9 from outer space which which
it isn't just as the room is not the
worst movie of all time troll 2 is not
the worst movie of all time what these
movies are are the most entertaining ly
bad movies of all time but I mean in
comparison to be movies from the 50s and
60s plan 9 from outer space is not like
the worst thing ever no I mean there's
lots of technical problems and sure the
gravestone falling over doesn't make
sense
day for night stuff but the world pros
the bad filmmaking so we've seen all
this shit before I mean if plan 9 from
outer space was made today it would be
really bad yeah it probably got that
reputation without warrant it was
probably a big flop and then everyone
kind of I think it was Michael Medved
the critic that kind of revived that
movie as being a well-known like famous
bad movie because a book called like the
golden turkey Awards yeah he awarded it
like the worst movie of all time
so I think that's where that reputation
comes from yeah I mean the movie
certainly was a big flop and just
vanished I think it says that he sold
the rights for a dollar for three years
it was turned down by every Hollywood
studio they didn't want his film they
didn't want his scripts and they didn't
want him anxious to make his own money
back J Edward Reynolds offered to buy
out
Ed's rights in the film for one dollar
it didn't have a choice so Ed Wood was a
guy he fought in World War two as a
paratrooper he wore ladies underwear
he liked to crossdress confidentially I
even paratroop wearing a brassiere and
panties I'll tell you I wasn't scared of
being killed but I was terrified of
getting wounded and having the medics
discover my secret
he was an idealistic incompetent young
man who made terrible movies and then
transitioned into terrible 70s porn
alcoholic and died
and died penniless and married three
four times and loved to dress in women's
clothing but very specifically he loved
angora so he made a couple of terrible
films
prior to his big big movie play nine
from outer space all right everybody
let's get set up for scene 112 and
that's that's the time frame of the
movie Ed Wood is sort of starting with
him making his first movie up until his
most famous movie would just play nine
from outer space
Martin lamda won an Oscar for his
portrayal as Bela Lugosi which is
amazing that's the highlight of the film
yeah you know which movie of yours I
love mr. Lugosi the invisible ray you
were great as Karloff sidekick well the
heart of the movie is and it was wise of
them to structure the movie around those
two kind of meeting and befriending each
other and that would giving him kind of
a second boost on life so lateness his
life and his career and that's really
the heart of the movie is that
relationship and them helping each other
out in odd ways because they're both
kind of like outcasts and misfits and
it's like they need each other don't you
have any savings it's very comedic and
it's actually one of those movies that I
think it's better on repeat viewings
because they're so mariya so many
quotable lines but uh it does deal with
the fact that Bela Lugosi had a drug
problem and it doesn't no way where it
never gets bogged down in that or gets
too dramatic it just kind of shows it as
it's almost like because the movies so
like chipper and it was so optimistic
that when it has these brief moments of
kind of Bela Lugosi at his lowest it's
almost like a splash of water like yes
this is fun but real life keeps creeping
in to there they're kind of idealized
movie Romanticism
oh my goodness you gave me the willies
you look like that Dracula guy I pay
miss Bela Lugosi
I wish to commit myself
Tim Burton film it's Tim Burton's best
movie it's arguably the last great movie
maybe not even arguably III would say
its highs with few his big adventure
yeah I don't think I've liked the Tim
Burton film since I kind of like Mars
Attacks which he did after this yeah I
don't think I've seen Barnes attacks
since I saw it the first time and i
rewatch i'd would every couple years
yeah well there was that period where
it's yeah Tim Burton was at his Heights
Johnny Depp I think this is his best
performance and now he's like a joke bag
Len alleged alleged scumbag I think it's
one of those early see the Tim Burton he
had that that he's got that vision that
the Tim Burton vision and so those kind
of movies they they have the Tim Burton
stamp on them they got the look and and
the wackiness and then this I think was
the early Johnny Depp like I mean I play
weird characters yeah and and Johnny
Depp he would probably didn't talk like
that Johnny Depp turns him into this
weird like cartoony character and it's
so like such a like a charming
mesmerizing performance and it's it's so
odd yeah well that's that goes along
with all the because it's like we've
mentioned everyone's kind of heightened
yeah and not only that but and I know
the the screenwriters talked about this
on their commentary track but everybody
is introduced and into the movie kind of
throughout the movie we meet all these
characters and their introductory scenes
are always like so emblematic of who
they are like we meet tor Johnson in the
wrestling ring we know Lugosi trying out
a coffin
don't constrictive I can't even fold my
arms jima so the ghost yep I've never
had any complaints she's the most
uncomfortable coffin I've ever read it
Vampira is hosting her show and so it's
like it's very fairy tale-like yeah
you're going along this path and you
meet all these characters it looks like
The Wizard of Oz the Wizard of Oz which
is funny because I've ever had Johnny
Depp kind of based his performance on
Ronald Reagan and the Tin Man from The
Wizard of Oz okay really
where's film you ever saw well my next
one will be better the next one will be
better
yep it's a piece of shit you got Mike
Starscream and I'm on the phone hey you
can't talk that way about my movie
you're a movie I wish it was your movie
I wish I hadn't blown every time I ever
made it to making this stink bomb and if
I ever see you again I'll kill you
Mike stars everybody's great in this
movie and they're all so specific like
everybody is memorable and and specific
yeah yeah you remember even the the
small performances Mike Starr is the
sleazy movie producer I need a drag
queen picture and it gonna be the
Christine Jorgensen story no more
goddamn variety had to put the story
before I've had the rights now that
bitch is asking for the sky is there a
script fuck no but
it opens in nine weeks and Tulsa it's
like all those the wonderful wonderful
little moments and then but but my point
was was this was that that golden little
moment when Tim Burton still had the
burton-esque look because there's
there's moments where like Tim Burton
has to put in his his style and and the
moment that sticks out to me is when and
when Ed Wood and his girlfriend after
Sarah Jessica Parker which is Patricia
Arquette they go on a little Haunted
funhouse you know and so you got all the
little Tim Burton things but then yeah
so you have the early Johnny Depp goofy
I'm playing a character and then Tim
Burton and then it's like after that and
both of them pushed it too far and then
you get you get that that big pile of
dog crap Charlie and the Chocolate
Factory Alice and wonderland and
everything was pushed too far like Tim
Burton style started to overtake the
movies yes like this movie has a lot of
hearts yes Edward Scissorhands has a lot
of hearts that's a moment and they're
there all of his movies and I guess they
still kind of are but they're all about
like misfits and weirdos and outcasts
but this is where the the his style
elevated the story as opposed to his
later movies where it's just like a pile
of puke visually I think is Alice in
Wonderland may be the ugliest movie I've
ever seen
in this movie the cinematography
black-and-whites
when I think of Tim Burton I think of
his creative visuals but not so much as
cinematography but like the the way this
movie is lit so it's so rich and there's
so many like there's a scene where Bela
Lugosi has to get in the puddle of water
with the Robert octopus and in the
background there's all these car
headlights shining on them and it like
from a cinematography standpoint it's
it's gorgeous but it's also makes sense
in the story and where you're like oh
that's how they're lighting the scene
yeah yes sir certain scenes look kind of
Hollywood and and flat and certain
scenes are very rich and and I always
think of that scene when they're there
reading the reviews of Ed Wood stage
play oh yeah and a little very moody nah
it's not that bad you can't concentrate
on the negative look he's got some nice
things to say here the soldiers costumes
are very realistic that's positive wave
of the century well I've seen a lot
worse reviews I've seen reviews where
they didn't even mention the costumes
but then you have like the scenes in the
apartment with him and Sarah Jessica
Parker and it and then those are
recreated for Glen or Glenda and yeah
it's sort of it looks like Ozzie and
Harriet like TV show and it's just it's
just all around it's a perfect blend of
the Tim Burton's creativity Tim Burton
highlighting a specific character giving
him heart and creating this little
universe yeah well and it's it's I mean
the movies about the kind of
transformative magic of movies I mean
the movie ends on a very sort of sweet
romantic moment
right now let's go baby boy it's only a
five-hour drive it'll probably stop
mother telling me get to the desert
it'll probably stop by the time we get
her on the corner it's the premier plan
9 and they're outside in the rain and
he's like let's go get married right now
and that's the music swells it has a
Hollywood ending it has a Hollywood
ending and then it pans up to the sky
and then we get the PostScript it's like
Ed Wood died penniless alcoholic it's
not like there's the reality creepy then
just like the reality creeps in a little
bit with the Bela Lugosi stuff see the
usual gang of misfits and dope addicts
are here it's funny that the closest
thing we have to villains in this movie
are the normal people that are very
rational and and just tried to point out
to Ed Wood that is filmmaking it's
terrible it's true that's true Sarah
Jessica Parker who I've never really
have cared much for but I love her in
this movie because she's so just matter
of fact storms out and she's rides yeah
but for the perspective of the movie you
know she's sort of the mean outsider
even though she's the realistic person
and she's she's annoyed when she doesn't
get the big big role and for the girl
who who Edward thought was paying for
the movie got the lead role and so Sarah
Jessica Parker's naturally upset yeah
I'm sorry what did you want me to say
there are plenty of other parts like
what the secretary the file clerk and
then you have that wonderful scene when
the studio executives screamed Glen or
Glenda definitely think it's a joke I
think it's a prank and that's that's
just wonderful this is probably another
one of Billy Wellman's practical jokes
the street dressed in the clothes I
think it's a funny movie anyway but if
you've ever made no budget movie yeah
yes it's so relatable and yeah in that
respect - um yeah I could probably name
10 quotes from this movie that we say
almost on a daily basis I have five days
to complete this picture don't get goofy
are we cops
but our never permit run yeah I have 25
scenes to shoot tonight yeah and then
he's filming Glen or Glenda and this is
the scene she looks in the store window
hung kind of like that's the way let's
move on don't you want a second take for
protection what's to protect it was
perfect huh but you have this like this
wacky cast and crew that are just there
they're all there working trying to help
Atwood achieve his dream each character
is unique and has their own little
little thing don't Marie I don't want
anybody else during one of the low
points of Bill Murray's career wasn't
this around the time he's doing like
that elephant movie this was like that
blow before the kind of Wes Anderson
movies revived him yeah are you doing
like tear the the man who knew too
little I liked his character a lot too
because he's for a movie that came out
in the early 90s it's so like accepting
and not like punching down on these
characters of like Ed Wood you know
dressing in women's clothing
yeah there's jokes but it's never it
never feels like it's an his no I know
yeah and same with the the bunny is the
bunny directed bunny Breckenridge is the
Bill Murray character and the humor does
not he wants to you know get a sex
change but the humor doesn't come from
that it comes from him just being so
like open about it in the 50s right
apart when they're at the wrestling
match for tore Johnson's wrestling
they're gonna take out my organs and
make me a woman are you serious
it's something I've wanted to do for a
long
but it was until I saw your movie that I
realized I have to take action
goodbye penis and then of course the
famous Bill Murray moment when he's
getting baptized and they'll they have a
like a Christian pastor who's gonna
finance their film that's that really
happened - yeah well whether or not the
baptismal scene occurred I don't know
but they're all getting baptized and you
know obviously a bunny Breckinridge is
not going to be a evangelical Christian
do you reject Satan and all his evil
sure it's just so perfectly delivered
and so like like poignant and and it's
telling mr. bunny that's wrong I heard
you would be coming there lady toward
Johnson now dude my toes
talk about perfect casting yeah toward
Johnson who was a real-life wrestler
yeah george the animal' steele who's
also a real-life wrestler who looks just
fucking like him it's amazing it's it's
really yeah the perfect
he's not even an actor or whatever the
perfect person at the perfect time when
that movie was being made yeah and
that's it that's another very good
example of taking reality and tweaking
it I'm a movie director tor Johnson was
not a mono syllabic ape yes he sounded
like a normal guy but in this movie they
altered his voice do my toes you're
perfect perfect scat print fine miss
like this off right anyone you have one
of the boys take the guy and a girl back
to town you take charge but you give him
all the lines for he's unintelligible
look Lugosi he's dead and vampire won't
talk I had to give somebody to dialogue
well it's also with that wood comparing
it's obviously a disaster hurtis we have
not seen yet but I've read the book and
we're familiar with Tommy was so it's a
different situation where with that it's
all just these
kind of it's you know want to be actors
just normal people and then you have
this weird man at the center of it and
Ed Wood that's why I think of John
Waters to where it's like it's it's not
just one bizarre man who makes terrible
things yeah it's it's this whole cast of
wacky people that all kind of believe in
the same dream to no matter how terrible
the vision is except for the crusty old
camera man print it let's move on don't
you want to do another take ed looks
like big boy they had a little trouble
getting through the door no it's fine
it's real you know in actuality Lobo
would have to struggle with that problem
every day yeah there's a there's like a
meta joke there where they're like if
the film's obviously in black and white
yeah do you like the red or the green
one is there which one is the red what
do you mean I mean I can't see the
difference I'm colorblind but I kind of
like the dark gray wooden and it also it
you don't have to have seen Edward
movies to enjoy Ed Wood but if you do I
think it elevates his actual movies kind
of like if you watch best worst movie
and then you watch troll 2 after that it
changes your perspective of that movie
yeah and it elevates ed so it's it's it
works as a good companion piece where
each each aspect of it is kind of
propped up by the other yeah it it does
I mean I think I partially agree because
like you you watch out wood and it's so
fairy tale like and it's so like like at
that moment when they're the two pilots
come in like we're airline pilots and
where is the same behind them they push
the set together and they mr Wood can
where's the confidence in your standing
in it places and then the real movies
it's just like and the scenes and you
appreciate them more but you know that
the Tim Burton version that's not how
things happened in real life is right
but it takes the elements and and makes
them into something something really
clever and enjoyable and and fun I think
but the point I'm trying to make is that
making a b-movie in real life was
probably terrible miserable nightmare
Edward was probably stressed out you
know obviously they had production
problems and but but translating that
into this like this ragtag group
Outsiders having this fun little
adventure making a movie it's fun to
watch them like struggle and kind of go
start from nothing from the terrible
play so Jessica Parker comes to hum the
ropes yeah there's like two people in
the theatre there's like a bucket
there's a lot of water and it's it's all
those details it's it's so perfect and
then they get the got the movie and then
they move their way up well the
Hollywood happy ending is Ed Wood
finishing the worst movie of all time so
there's that twist to it
so that this this takes real life and
turns it into magical art right and then
it works as its own thing like I would I
think I would like to see and like a
straight-laced
Ed Wood documentary I mean no one cares
anymore you and I would be the only ones
watching it but just like yeah you'd be
hard-pressed to find people that are
still alive to interview well that
looked back an ink or a documentary that
dulse I have interviews with like Kathy
wood and Conrad Brooks some of his usual
ZAR in there but it's such a fluff piece
yeah that whole thing I think there's no
there's a one-shot Redwoods like it's
like naked and what rolling around with
like bimbo he's yeah he's like drunken
stumbling down a hallway
you lands like that's the reality of
where Edwards life yeah it kind of makes
you like after the Hollywood ending of
Atwood and makes you like well that's
where he ended up and that's it's nice
that they didn't they can make a sequel
now and Johnny Depp could still play the
part of a pathetic drunk he's someone I
consider a great friend somebody there's
one thing we didn't mention Jay this is
the movie that called Sarah Jessica
Parker a horse horse this is where it
comes from ladies enjoyed him to come up
that line after she was cast right I
gotta give her a lot of props for doing
that line that's where it's from kids we
didn't say that shit I came straight
from the horse's mouth
