Sep 24, 2017
Joe Versus the Volcano
youtube.com/watch?v=aw0z9kK7ssQ
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/911937796243324929
redlettermedia.com/joe-versus-the-volcano-review

hi everybody and welcome to another
episode of review I'm Josh I'm here with
Jim and we're gonna talk about a movie
that has gotten it's starting to get it
to do a little more than it used to back
back when it came out movie starring meg
Ryan America's Sweetheart and Tom Hanks
America's Dilli faced every man produced
by the team that brought you back to the
future and et it just came out on
blu-ray
that's called Joe versus the volcano
cheers Cheers
oh that's yeah this is one of my
favorite films of all time it's in
definitely in my top five mmm I read it
rediscovered it about six years ago okay
I saw it in the theater when I first
came out and I loved it for different
reasons than I do now
but rediscovering it I was in a place in
a working environment that was very
similar to Joe in the movie and so I
felt a great affinity to it and that
this this is like good young Tom Hanks
where you know it's a movie he's
carrying on his shoulders and it's not
just as a knee rom-com yes it's it's a
romantic comedy with like a lot of
underlying themes it's a heavy movie
mm-hmm very Tom Hanks stars as Joe and
as you said he works in a terrible
office and he's an ex firefighter he's
always sick I don't feel good so what
you think I feel good nobody feels good
after childhood it's a fact of life I
feel rotten
so what I don't let it bother me and he
goes to the doctor again you have a
brain cloud there's a black fog of
tissue running right down the center of
your brain so then he goes home after
quitting his job and is given an offer
by an eccentric rich man mm-hmm to jump
into a volcano that's right to save the
waponi which is a
tribe with people on small island in the
Pacific every hundred years the big Wu
which is the volcano on the island
requires sacrifice and Joe just happens
to be dying
so he's offered all the before unlimited
credit cards to prepare for his journey
and just live a nice few months and go
die
one thing that shows his character the
quality of his character and his
integrity is he quits his job when he
finds out about the brain cloud Samuel
Harvey Greiner more does not knock on
his door there's a there's a pause where
he's playing his ukulele in the morning
and and that moment right there is to
show that Joe is quitting he knows he's
dying but he's quitting anyway because
he knows there's there's more things to
life in this terrible job yes so he
doesn't he doesn't even know that he's
gonna get all these credit cards and
have this wonderful last five months of
his life no he doesn't know what he's
going to do so there's a lot of courage
there again going back to the
firefighting yeah it's the the the first
act really is the whole story of Joe's
life at the office and starts off with
this fantastic set piece of all the
workers coming in first thing in the
morning and this terrible awful lot and
he joins the sole of his shoe on the the
turnstile oh that's right going that's
right
these traps and the office is just this
circular yeah death spiral and he can't
get out he makes $300 a week every day
is the same I mean even the lines of the
sixteen tons song at the start of the
movie
I owe my soul to the soul again a
recurring theme I owe my soul to the
company store the company store is many
people might not know it was a situation
for for instance coal miners who they
worked in the coal mine and in certain
countries in certain places they didn't
get paid they got vouchers for food
right and vouchers to help take care of
their families and everything else but
they didn't actually get any money so
they couldn't rise above their station
so they were trapped and they owed their
soul to the company store and that's
that's symbolically
the situation Joe's in but so he walks
in and everything's already in motion
and NVIDIA has three scenes in this
movie and every one of them was
fantastic he's got this whole first
scene where he's just on the phone
having this again circles
yeah circles this endlessly circular are
you arguing that with you then I die
plays like he does a wonderful job of
playing that challenging boss that has
nothing to back him up absolutely you
know he's saying you will replace you in
a second you'll never good enough for
this job and then the second he's
challenge is like you better go yeah you
have to go because there's nothing
behind it yes and that's when time yeah
oh yeah yeah because we've met people
like that oh you've worked for people
like that absolutely I mean I think
that's one of the reasons why that first
act of the movies is I love it so much
because I've worked in so many terrible
places as has so many other people I
mean that whole first scene could be a
movie in itself I mean it's it's people
struggling in a place that they can't
stand and there's their soul is slowly
degrading yeah and then something comes
along to hopefully like get them out of
there mmm-hmm but I've worked with so
many people who may still be trapped in
the same job yes and just like didi and
the other the other office worker
they're still there yeah they've got
nowhere else to go yeah and a lot of
foreshadowing in that lamp you need a
lot of colorful scenes and it's rotating
circular again and it rotates around
there's a blonde haired woman sitting by
the shore there's a sort of Easter
Island style looking head there's a ship
there's a lightning bolt looking thing
and you've already seen twice at that
point yeah yes because the opening scene
of the movie which i think is is a
homage to the opening scene of
metropolis oh sure is everyone walking
towards the American panas coke Factory
and it's it's this lightning bolt path
which is the logo of the company and so
that's right in the model of the company
is home of the rectal probe the shape is
somewhat synonymous with the rectum and
the digestive system no if you look at
medical charts it's it's almost a very
similar yeah very simplified yeah so he
goes to the doctor and this is when he
discovers he's got the brain cloud and
then makes his way back to the office
sees a little flower that's been trodden
upon in the in the opening scene and he
he lifts it back up out of the out of
the pavement and tries to resuscitate it
which is again he's racing he is himself
resuscitated then he's bringing
everything he's trying to bring
everything else back exactly stepping in
the next stage of his life me not that
anybody could look samba lights I can
feel them sucking the juice out of my
eyeball fuck fuck fuck
I think the first act is the most
relatable one as well because like it's
towards the end of it after on his way
out after quitting he asks didi out D
how about dinner tonight yeah okay she's
shocked
Wow what a change and that's when the
movie starts to crank up the magical
realism absolutely just like the the
collage lights of Staten Island just
quite like that like the patchwork yeah
kind of quality of Joe's building yeah
we're pulling out of date you know that
the standard awful reality and we're
moving into a different we're getting
into the trap yeah yeah one of my
favorite things about the production
design was Bible Welsh is the the fact
that his apartment like many apartments
in many houses that have been bought up
with corrupt landlords who break
apartments into yeah break houses into
like 50 different apartments the wall
and Joe's apartment splits right down
the fireplace overall the production
design is just fantastic throughout the
movie and yeah it's one of the it's one
of the biggest things one of the biggest
assets the movie has again he's got this
tiny little apartment messy
giant crack in the wall right yes
lightning bolt shape mm-hmm so then
Lloyd Bridges shows up gives the offer
total red-carpet situation you're a
national hero you're Charles Lindbergh
its wine women and song then yeah jump
into the volcano Joe ultimately decides
to take the offer which is one of my
favorite lines yeah it's like a king
died like a man that's what I what do
you say
alright I'll do it
and I mean that is one of my favorite
parts about the movie is the delivery
meg Ryan has scenes like this where they
deliver their lines so flatly during
extreme circumstances yeah they're
saying something very like vital and
important but treating it like they're
going down to go get beer at the store
and come back the inner monologue mm-hmm
is very outer yeah a lot of times yes
sure unexpected times where it's just
like this is what the subtext is and
just like there's no subtext to a lot of
movie because the characters just say
yeah sure subtext so what would you like
to go this movie follows a lot of the
sort of monomyth the Joseph Campbell
like mono mythic pattern and this is the
stage where you you have a personal aide
Ossie Davis kind of falls into that that
that area but he seems to be giving Joey
advice but he's saying I can't help you
and you have to help yourself
exactly yeah you say to me you want to
go shop in one of my clothes but you
don't know what kind you need that
hanging in the air like I'm gonna fill
in the blanks now that to me is like
asking me who you are and I don't know
who you are it's taken me all my life to
find out who I am and I am tired now you
know what I'm saying in this this is the
shopping montage yes which is great
which I feel because this is around the
area late 80s early 90s of montages
mm-hmm but I'm willing to believe that
this is a play on the montage and the
satire on the montage
there's a montage in a pretty woman
mm-hmm and it's all about Richard Gere
giving Julia Roberts credit cards I'm
still paying for sex and here are my
credit kiss
whereas grain amor is given Joe credit
cards to go and have a night out on the
town and during your adventure five
months before you die which is a
completely different set of events and
the things that Joe buys the majority of
the things that Joe buys are very
necessary I'll take this too and they
end up being practical
whether you necessarily expect at that
point or not they save lives
I travel the world you're away from home
perhaps away from your family all you
have to depend on is yourself and your
luggage I'll take four of them may you
live to be a thousand years old
thanks time to you I agree with you that
it's meant to be satirical and play on
those those tropes and they're there are
points other montages where the we're
the movie kind of tips its hat tips its
hand a little bit at that where there's
the the fishing montage later when
they're on the boat
good lovin is playing yeah it's like the
most obvious thing in the world and
they're fishing and Joe can't catch
anything oh boy
it's it's kind of a terrifying looking
puppet but it looks like a terrifying
Henson puppet but Tom Hanks expression
when he backs away from it is like the
sheer horror yeah like he's terrified
ladies and gentlemen we are beginning
our descent into Los Angeles
cut to the airplane and the voice of the
flight attendant that Meg Ryan's second
role hi hi are you Joe banks yeah who
are you I'm the daughter of the guy who
hired you
Angelica great Omar yeah he lands in Los
Angeles only to meet Angelica played by
meg Ryan shocker nothing they do look
like little monsters or something but
they're good little monsters
she's playing we were discussing this
last night kind of the there's a lot of
actor a lot of prototypical California
there's there's Katharine Hepburn little
hey no that is Marilyn Monroe in a
valley girl
yes I'm a flibbertigibbet come on let's
get out of here
very overconfident but completely
insecure in a complete wreck I'm a grown
woman and I live on my father's money
that restaurant that had my painting up
that's my father's restaurant just
listen to me here if you have a choice
between killing yourself and and doing
something you're scared of doing why not
take the leap and do the thing you're
scared of doing and she has to get him
to the boat and she's forgotten and they
have to hurry out of there mm-hmm
they get to the jetty where the
tweedledee is waiting yes Patricia gray
no more who is Slade Slade bye bye Ryan
that's your half-sister yeah I mean
there certainly has to be something
there in the the idea that it's it's
three women that Joe is with
individually right and they all
obviously share characteristics there's
the the mythology of the goddess you
know right so yeah you've got the maiden
which is DD you've got the crown which
is Angelica and you've got the goddess
which is Patricia mhm the goddess is
supposed to be the one that nurtures
fertility etc etc and spoiler alert she
is the one that Joe loves and ends up
with yeah
one thing I love is when Joe says
farewell Angelica she waves from up on
the pier into him and has the strut of
confidence as if he's delivered
something to her of confidence life can
be good yeah you dumb things can be
positive and and she just seems happy to
have met him and you know
yeah maybe things are gonna be okay with
her he might be a bit of a catalysts
yeah going through and just you know
maybe he'd maybe he does changed Edie's
life who knows right he's sort of
shedding you know parts of his older
life there's a metamorphosis going on he
takes off his jungle gym hat and he
whips it off yeah into the water now
that could be shedding the skin but
angelic also made sort of fun of them
moons I was doing his outfit it might be
just him realizing that his outfits kind
of silly yeah yeah and he throws it in
the water with George delarue's
soundtrack like just soaring and
romantic he's off on a big Pacific
voyage to the unknown and he start
getting into Patricia's character that's
right especially with the scene where
Joe is in his cabin mm-hmm he's in bed
like a little boy because I think there
are a lot of themes where Joe is kind of
little boy he's growing up yeah he's
growing up but he's still kind of like
he's under the covers he's tucked in
yeah and he's reading a book I've always
kept clear on my father stuff ever since
I got out on my
now he's pulling me back in he knew I
wanted this boat and he used it and he
got me working for him which I swore I
would never do I feel ashamed because I
had a price there is a quality of like
Joe just wants to sleep
go upstairs yeah it's kind of it yeah
his his posture through the whole scene
is kind of just like okay yeah I've read
theories that the following this Joe
goes to sleep in the twiddle Dee and and
things kind of end there for his life
and then the rest of the movie is like
some kind of rebirth it's just whatever
I don't necessarily agree with it yeah
sometimes when I watch the movie I stop
it there his work I tend to rewatch this
movie but I tend to stop it there
because if it is a real sort of finality
it's a it's such a poignant point to
like mean Angelica and everything is
going I'm talking bullshit away this is
delicious but I didn't even know what
the bow boy it's a little weird today
huh
there's a confident warning
John Patrick Shanley's a he's a
playwright yep writer in in New York and
he's written over 25 stage plays and it
the film is very theatrical it's what I
love about it is it expands from
big-budget Hollywood Amblin to small
intimate scenes yeah they're very much
like a stage play and the scene the pre
typhoon scene seems very staged plays
it's very like yeah green gel lighting
theatrical in a theatre since
particularly about that point with the
typhoon like you notice a little bubble
you're swept up in the plot by that
point so much that it's just sure it's
just like yeah the sure it turns green
before the storm hits and Joe is the
innocent again is what's a typhoon like
like what is a typhoon I don't know what
I'm from Staten Island I have no idea
what a typhoon is like well Joe I think
you're gonna find out and he certainly
does right and in this high-stress
moment they look at each other and
finally one of my favorite they're just
again present in the moment and they
kiss
so again of course because Joe is a
firefighter he cares about people he's a
hero and as he finally uh locates her
few meters away from the ship which gets
struck by lightning but is there a
symbolic graphic I don't know well
they're probably you know it could
probably even ax-cut you to the repeated
you've got Joe and Patricia stranded all
four steamer trunks pop up yeah again
going back to the the montage of the
shot the shopping montage yeah this is
where that all pays off yeah so he
bought the violin case bar yes which has
I think kind of Perrier or water I
thought it was tonic water Tony okay
Tony water and a little cups and things
in it in the shape like a violin he's
feeding her from the cap of this the
smallest bottle just the smallest as
long but make sure it's fresh water
making sure she gets fresh water not
taking any for himself he also bought an
oversized umbrella the umbrella is over
Patricia's body as she's lying
unconscious and a shortwave radio
and at the end of the scene he looks up
to the heavens and holds out his arms
which goes back to the opening scene
where he opens his background help me
get me out of here mm-hmm but it's a I'm
free yeah other than that it's it's him
keeping Patricia alive yes and keeping
himself sane as much as he can so he can
keep her alive exactly yeah he has no
interest in himself no but he goes back
to exactly but he has to he has to
persevere himself so he can keep her
alive right
this is an important scene because he
sees the moon and he has a realization
that he's gonna die mm-hmm but this is
only he's supposed to have five months
before he dies yeah I think there are
like three weeks in and he's gonna die
they're gonna run out of water and
they're in the belly of the whale so to
speak and he looks at the moon and says
dear God whose name I do not know thank
you for my life because he thinks he's
gonna die yes it's like a transformative
experience again and you think Joe is
dead I mean he should be dead you should
be Joe didn't you drink any water for
yourself Joe they managed to find a pony
whoo-hoo
right and the story is essentially back
on track that's right I'm here where
they're supposed to be yeah well earlier
in an earlier scene when they're having
dinner mmm Patricia tells Joe that the
war Pony culture is based on Romans
druids Jews human Celts
yes that's yes and they've a peculiar
love of orange soda which explains why I
can't say peculiar Jamie this is
delicious
at this stage in the movie I could see a
lot of audiences tuning out or maybe
complaining it's maybe too much okay
it's it's when you have maybe 20 minutes
of your your heroes at sea having you
know quiet monologues and whatever and
suddenly you're bombarded by color
especially very much because there's
there's a color switch through the whole
movie and flooded with tons of people
yeah and there's a sort of Gilligan's
Island aspect to it
sorry yeah and then they're greeted by
Toby chief you can play by the goethe
and it's a fantastic
his most of his attitude through the
entire entire scenes that he has is just
he's had it with this shit will someone
please jump in the volcano exact wants
to keep living his life and not lose his
soul it is my soul I hope you don't lose
it showed you eyes it's not completely
Gilligan's Island it's not completely
chaos we have the scene where meg Ryan
Patricius character is treated to a very
nice spa environment weather but then
you get the contrasting slapstick Joe
Joe oh he's gonna like slap with fish
and octopi are getting stuck to his face
and they're all laughing at them like
they're obviously mocking them as is the
duck that's stole the day the stand gun
is luggage yeah because but it's a
moment of saying the luggage is still
here your luggage is okay your baggage
is okay yeah this is what you've brought
with you and you're gonna present with
you for the rest of your life yes it's
about moments about for sure there is a
duck in standing by the mantel clock
when Joe's wondering how much time he
has left
the idea is the the doctor is a quack
the second duck symbolism we see is with
gray Nemours cane that's right when he
comes to visit Joe is great and we're
telling the truth is he trying to play
Joe and then the third time we see the
duck it's on his luggage Joe isn't
getting a spa treatment he's being made
a fool of he's being mocked I think the
most important thing is everyone likes
Docs
all right Joe has to climb into that
volcano take me I love you and now
you're gonna kill yourself Tom Hanks
does one of his two or three best
deliveries in the entire movie maybe in
his entire career it's so good I love
you I love you too
I've never been in love with anybody
before either it's great
I am glad but the timing stinks I gotta
go the most beautiful relationship you
could ever imagine to independent people
who love each other but they're doing
things for themselves yes but they're
still connected okay they're doing
they're taking the same step that's
right for different reasons I felt like
this particular ending I liked that it
sort of just allowed for the open ends
and it allowed for the mystery and we
were just talk we were talking the
beginning up so it about the blu-ray
that's just come out mm-hmm from Warner
Brothers right with zero extras No
meg Ryan and Tom Hanks are in a
different place than they were in 1990
sure it would be nice to hear from them
I honestly I would I would wonder how
they feel about the movie I would hope
that they have positive I would think
that he lives there I think this is an
artistic movie yeah I still consider
them artists absolutely it's a unique
movie for both of them
it is meg Ryan has never had the chance
before like before that are since to
express that much range absolutely that
many different characters and she's so
many different wonderful in this movie
everything she does is she should have
been nominated yes
that's yeah well you know you know how
they're different comedies yeah yeah
John Patrick Shanley is an amazing
director he's directed 25 or more plays
in New York I've directed the movie
doubt he wrote into a stage playing us
and we talked about he wrote moonstruck
which was kind of his ticket to be a
movie he wanted an Oscar for that
yeah and unfortunately this movie bombed
and he was not able to make another
movie for a while but he just went back
in plays and then and screenplays yeah
yeah yeah
so Warner's why uh why the cold shoulder
nothing right oh well I guess regardless
it's a great film I didn't see it Joe
versus Mulkey know the dirt of the
universe is you there anymore orange
soda no you're just gonna have to do
this okay oh you have some well thank
you I drank all mine sorry other other
side other side other side

