Apr 1, 2017
Horse Ninja
youtube.com/watch?v=OEl9sUmTqCQ
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/848148351086448640
redlettermedia.com/horse-ninja-review

hello I'm Mike and I'm rich and today we
have a special guest with us why it's
our old friend Freddie Williams comic
book artist how's it going guys
good hi Freddie and Freddie's here to
talk about a movie that I think is a
favorite of all of ours
it's a 1990s made-for-tv movie mm-hmm
yeah based on a comic book yes yes
that's right we don't usually talk about
1990s made-for-tv movies and never aired
but today we are its horse ninja on this
episode of review
well we should probably have a little
bit of backstory here because I imagine
most people just aren't familiar with
horse ninja well yeah they're not
familiar with it because the TV movie
never aired but first it was a comic and
I actually have the very first issue
right here nice and engine number one
yeah so Freddie tell us all about the
comic yes
horse nature the comic was made by Kevin
Laird and Peter Eastman are those the
Ninja Turtle guys Kevin Eastman and
Peter Laird they created the Ninja
Turtles but oddly they each had a
brother a little less successful that
had the same name as their opposite
partner that's really really confusing
Kevin Laird and Peter Eastman they were
a little jealous I'm being presumptuous
here but they were a little jealous of
their brothers success I mean Ninja
Turtles got huge so Kevin Laird and
Peter Eastman decided to create their
own comic book which had like the same
theme like Ninja Turtles major trouble
superpower stuff so but it's a horse and
that a turtle well the similarities
don't end there the Ninja Turtles were
of course trained by a mutated sewer rat
named splinter and Horseman Joe was
trained by mutated jockey who is
actually just a human-sized jockey after
he's mutated yeah he went from being
small and mutated big to a regular-sized
jockey the comic book was actually
pretty decent it had kind of a cult
following yeah I've never read it
actually you read it I've read every
issue it's actually really good I think
they just jumped the gun too soon with a
TV show and they only had like some six
issues even those like five I think when
they when they start making the TV well
it was okay yeah at the time that they
made the TV movie was five is a 6-1 and
then the movie actually torpedoed the
whole franchise just kind of petered out
after that yeah
I mean I can see I could see why they
were trying to do that me as the 90s
comic books were fucking huge and they
were they were trying to cash in on the
success that everyone else in Image
Comics was having it's it's I'm so glad
we're talking about this film on review
because so many people out there need to
see it yeah it's not I mean a lot of
people don't know about it because I
think mainly it just it shows up
occasionally at convention like you see
a lot more like like 15 years ago I I
see less of it now I'm not sure why that
is
yeah I mean it would show up at
conventions like at the bootleg tables
that you sometimes run across but people
just don't know about it so I think it's
kind of like supply and demand like if
you're not selling the one copy you have
you just don't bring it again there's
something like that if you want to get
to the boss you got to go through me
from what I recall he went and take
people a lot well he doesn't actually
talk because they couldn't get it like a
mask with the mouths that moved yeah
well you could hear the actor inside the
mat from well hohoho and they just left
it in that's right Mikulski maybe have
the Dodge tonight midnight
don't bring any other men yeah there was
like something weird with the audio
where they didn't like drop out to the
audio in an ad art with sound effects
just me and new modeling or so actually
I wasn't the final voice of unaired
pilot they never finished it I think
originally it was going to be Malcolm
McDowell as the voice yeah well it
wasn't a pilot it was just a singular TV
movie but they never fit they never
finished they never finished the flight
it I think the intent though was to make
it like a backdoor pilot so to speak
where if based on its success they might
go to the big screen or maybe a series
of television yeah
it's it's a full-length movie and it's
amazing I actually grew up with the
bootleg really I was just want to find
the horse ninja toys I always looked in
the stores I could never find them my
mother had to tell me that you know they
never released the movie there are no
toys and Jesus like she told me Santa
Claus wasn't real all over again
in the movie the plot is is that the mob
has a canister of depleted uranium and
they want to sell it to terrorists so we
decide to do this like this exchange in
a horse track for no reason and the FBI
is you know clued in on this or picked
off whatever so there's this whole thing
and there's going to be this exchange
and then there's like this fight and
some gunshots and everyone's running and
somehow the cannister of uranium flies
into the horse track like right as
they're about to start the horse race
yeah I mean it's been a little while
since I've seen it but I remember it
being pretty artistic actually where
there was like this really cool fight
scene kind of intercut with slow-mo
shots of the horse track like the the
horse race as it was getting started
yeah yeah yeah the horse is kicking in
the dirt you see horse ninja before he's
the horse ninja he has a horse yeah
what was his horse name do you remember
I think we should know bees way oh my
god like he kind of these things yeah I
mean it looks better in the comic like
what a but when you say it out loud the
origin was different in the comics the
origin is just like a horse that got
possessed by the spirit of an ancient
ninja yeah
it was there was I mean there was a
magic statue was a magic dragon statue
that's summon the spirit right but
instead for some reason they changed
everything when they did the TV movie of
the week they did this mobster story
yeah I think they wanted to make it
close the whole thing with the canister
and everything it made it closer in some
ways to the ninja turtle origin I think
that was probably their their goals
that's the weird thing is that he is he
he's just a man with a horse mask he the
like in the comic you know it looks like
a horse he has he is the giant you know
I mean yes the body structure of the
horse right legs and the hooves and all
that but and the jockey mutated jockey
trained him but here he just rises from
the rubble yeah and he's a horseman too
right it was just a guy in a mask they
were they were very they were very
nervous studios about having a love
interest between you know like a human
woman and a horse right but he's healing
on the bottom they did a smart thing by
casting Sarah Jessica Parker well the
one of the problems was is when I put up
the casting call out love interest for a
horse a lot of sketchy ladies showed up
they were just night out I heard a rumor
but on the set there was like there was
an argument that happened where the
casting director didn't realize that
they had already put someone in makeup
because when Farrah does an apartment
walk then they talk the makeup was
finalized right so I really have a face
like a horse in the comic book they they
do a little bit of urban you know New
York City street crime stuff but they're
they're usually going off on some kind
of mystical adventures like a visit
shangri-la and the spirit realm and then
he gets into a fight with E the ancients
yeah but with the budget that they had
in the in the made-for-tv movie i mean
you can't really blame them but they
couldn't do that kind of stuff but what
they did was a lot worse first ninja
you're under arrest
oh yeah I think he pushed a guy down the
stairs right yeah I think those the most
exciting thing that happened that you
clearly see one of the lights fall into
the shot yes yes and that is that's
better than gym shoes on that let's talk
about the ending of the the TV movie
which is wonderfully bad when horsemen
just steps on the horseshoe he's
compelled to go to the glue factory
where the mob has set up this scientific
device that will extract the uranium
dragged out from him and the horse
ninjas genitals yeah yeah basically the
resolution that you think you're going
to get is that horsemen just steps on
the his kryptonite basically this
horseshoe and he's going to go to the
warehouse and then there's supposed to
be this big spectacular fight thing yeah
right but instead instead they
apparently never shot two fight scene
ran out of money the production ended so
they take what happened earlier suddenly
the end of the movie is that scene but
they flip the footage to reuse it if you
want to get to the boss you gotta go
through me
what did this guy just go on to do
anything else or I mean there's there's
rumors about it because like the
original footage that actually showed
his real faith what basically was lost
that I don't think that was ever
preserved so the only footage we have of
him is as the horse the horse had a
Vernon here right so we don't actually
know who he is I think he's credited
just as horse ninja well I wonder where
he is
I've heard it was actually been diesel
he doesn't he doesn't want to say
anything about it he's a little bit
embarrassed about being a horse and if
that was actually I think Vin Diesel is
like first on screen performance they
say hush that one up
so the movie obviously never aired what
what happened like the comic line did it
continue or the creators of Kevin Laird
and Peter Eastman there were so focused
on trying to salvage this movie behind
the scenes but they kind of just let the
comic fall to the wayside yeah one what
cult fans following they had started to
wane greatly after the rumors of this
had gotten out from the end the bootleg
had leaked yeah
cancelled by issue nine yeah there was
some like kind of pathetic attempts at
like crossovers and stuff to revitalize
it right yeah they tried to revitalize
it by having a horse ninja versus
Predator yeah
and horse ninja and Archie where it was
like a very cartoony art style and
eventually you know Kevin Laird and
Peter Eastman just kind of faded into
obscurity I mean so we can all agree
that the movie you know has its problems
but I think we're all thankful that it
did get leaked and became a bootleg
because without it it we would be
missing one of the our favorite movie
moments that we've ever seen and I think
we all know what scene we're talking
about
