Sep 28, 2017
Star Trek Discovery (Pilot Episodes)
youtube.com/watch?v=2RVf01en-YA
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/913556576908251136
redlettermedia.com/star-trek-discovery-pilot-episodes-review/

well rich we're here to talk about Star
Trek discovery yes that's true and
usually on the internet when people talk
about Star Trek shows they abbreviate
the shows with three letter words TOS
TNG voi ds9 and now STD hello and
welcome to a very special episode of
review I'm Mike and I am rich and this
is a very special episode because one
hour set is different and two we're
talking about something that just came
out in fact yesterday it came out Star
Trek discovery normally our review shows
are about older movies but today we're
going to talk about something new
because rich you and I have been waiting
a long time for a new Star Trek
television series when did enterprise
end oh five oh five yeah so it's been
over a decade per decade we did have
Star Trek since enterprise the JJ Abrams
films yeah
and you rolled your eyes well it's a
film it's a different it's a different
beast and Star Trek is a thing that
belongs on TV even though the first two
episodes of Star Trek Discovery were a
JJ Abrams film I'm still I'm still not
convinced we're getting Star Trek on TV
well let's talk
now rich what were your initial
reactions to Star Trek discovery who is
this for I don't understand how this is
supposed to appeal to me a Star Trek fan
I think a Star Trek it's it's it's the
vision of a of a brighter future Mike
it's it's a it's a it's a galaxy where
humanity has gotten its ship together
and we've solved all of our problems
there's no more hunger there's no more
hate and we get along with the other
races in the galaxy and we try to spread
our diplomacy wherever we go let's see
what's out there
engage
and then I watch discovery of war this
isn't Star Trek
that's my overall opinion of Star Trek
discovery the other thing I find weird
is this is a pilot episode and I'm
usually I'm lenient on pilot episodes
because they're typically bad a pilot
episode has to introduce all of the
characters and it introduced the
scenario and then usually from there
things can get better after watching the
pilot for Star Trek discovery we need a
new pilot we have one character we have
Michael and in the next episode she's
gonna be on a new ship with a new
captain in a wildly different scenario
than where she was at in the pilot
episodes it's so weird
yeah it's it's like a setting up a
backstory to the show right which I mean
I didn't necessarily have a problem with
I I thought it was different I like that
our main character basically started an
intergalactic war in the first hour of
the television series so it leaves it
open to taking lots of different twists
but but before we talk about the
storyline we need to talk about the show
itself the look the feel yeah visually
it's kind of gorgeous it's very
cinematic that's that's something that's
different
it's very it looks as good or better
than a movie it's beautiful yeah um
particularly one shot stuck out to me
it's when the the Duchenne's oh the the
ship that's commanded by Michelle Yeoh
gets rescued by the Europa the and
there's that they they're drifting and
about to crash into an asteroid then you
get that that beautiful shot where it
goes up and you see that it's a tractor
beam from the Europa and it's very
cinematic and all I thought about was
the naked now and even they but Star
Trek is in effects
No and I wanted to mention to you
specifically one of your biggest gripes
in the Star Trek universe
yeah was that ships always meet on the
same plane yes and there is shot in this
show where they decloak and then the
Shinjo is like completely sideways I was
like rich is gonna really appreciate I
did appreciate that okay I did a priest
nono visually visually I I don't really
have any issues oh of course not you
can't have issues with the visuals and
the special effects
some people have I've heard bitching
online like this looks different than it
did in the original how does the how
does the original series evolve from
this and and and and here's the thing
I'm gonna say it if you're a super
hardcore Star Trek fan you might not
like this but the original series
doesn't look like the future anymore you
you can't do that you can't have the the
knobs that just won't work out of the we
have to deal with the fact that the
future is now holographic displays well
well on that note I really enjoyed this
overall mainly when I did two things
with my brain one I pretended that this
was way far in the future and I
pretended that it was a Calvin timeline
yeah with those two things in mind and
both of those are wrong in the show
context with both of those things in
mind I set that back and I said hey this
is a hundred and fifty years after
Picard's dead look at that they got they
got holographic communications with
people that walking around the room
right right what the fuck that's great
look at that I look at how far the
Federation is events I love it are you
receiving my image captain yes and you
you appear to be sitting on my bridge
may take me a while to get used to this
I'm not fond of uninvited guests the
two-hour opening was great
III really liked it as a nice movie you
say you say you like it as a movie do
you like it as a Star Trek movie though
cuz that's that's the that's the thing
I'm struggling with us like how was the
Star Trek in any way just just the
matically this is like like Battlestar
Galactica that's the big issue I'm
saying issue I'm not gonna say problem
yeah it's an issue it's it's the phrase
you can never go home again we are in
2017 and you cannot make Star Trek
Voyager anymore and and I'm sitting
there I'm watching it and I'm thinking
in the very first five minutes of the
movie they literally violate the prime
directive so you have that opening scene
Captain George you and Michael Burnham
the captain and the first officer of the
Shinjo are on an alien planet they're
walking around and their mission is to
save this alien species because the
planet is undergoing a hundred year
drought right now and they're like well
as long as they don't see us we don't
violate you know directive 1 prime
directory or whatever she says and I'm
like oh ok that's true in the case of
like who watches the Watchers where you
can go in and observe an alien culture
but not interfere but if it's the
natural course of an alien life-form is
to go extinct because of planetary
conditions you really shouldn't alter
that so we make an exception in the
deaths of millions yes and is it the
same situation if it's an epidemic and
not a geological calamity absolutely
about a war if generations of conflict
is killing millions do we interfere
the prime directive clearly states there
can be no interference with the internal
development Bailey and civilization
who knows maybe since that time and TNG
time they have maybe become a little
more hardcore right about the prime
directive but at first I was like oh but
as a scene it worked because you've got
the captain and the first officer and
they're going a little mission there two
ladies they're there it's very symbolic
that there there's a there's eggs yeah
because they're women
it was very motherly they're saving this
race they're providing water it was all
very symbolic and that's what I got out
of it
because the Klingons like visually I
don't I don't I don't give a fuck about
them being visually different like I
said you know TOS the forehead thing
between TOS and T and G you know they've
they've already visually changed at the
Klingons but like tos and Star Trek the
motion picture yeah yeah but culturally
well you know something that's just
small that stuck out to me much like the
water prime directive thing is uh the
Corp ship mm do you remember what the
Klingons attitude towards corpses was
and TNG was just a vessel yeah what what
TNG episode wasn't where I was like I
think it was one of the Worf ones were
Worf killed uh Picard was like on the
screen but the Klingons like what do you
want us to beam the body back and the
Klingons like just shove it into space
we don't give a shit yeah yeah you wish
the bodies returned they are now only
this it's a tweak people complaining
about the look of the Klingons is to me
and a little silly today of clans in the
Abrams movies they did for us did they
look a little bit like this yeah they
were fucked up and weird-looking so
they're not hair oh yeah the straight
the strange thing about the changing
look of the Klingons to me is the old
look is kind of iconic it's it's a weird
thing to change because of what we had
worked but uh I don't know that's just
details like you'd like you said
Klingons look like they smeared brown
makeup on some guy in the 1960s and then
when the movie came around ah yeah okay
let's put some things on their head and
then TNG comes around and then now it's
this yeah
Klingons have never yeah they've been
changing all along even even culturally
like in the original series there are
more just mustache twirling villains
right weak Lincoln so not as luxury
minded as you were this yes and then
later on they kind of became the
honorbound warrior race so it's changing
the Klingons is nothing new I don't I
don't have an issue with things that are
different
my tight talk do not show your face in
this town again
yeah it's a whole different ballgame I
liked the look of them as like just this
warrior alien race we've got them
warrior alien race the costumes were
very detailed that set was great and I
liked the fact that they had different
like skin tones yeah there's the albino
one some of them were like purplish and
you know and that those always one thing
that bugged me a little about old Star
Trek is that the the Federation had like
all these different kinds of ships but
then like every other race had like such
uniformity in their ships but budget my
budget yeah a model you have a Romulan
warbird and and there's like 12 of them
they're all the same like no one at any
point said let's make a little different
Romulan warbird John and all that all
the races all kind of looked alike you
have you have the human race and you
have such a variety of how people look
but Klingons all look exactly the same
and Vulcans all look exactly the same I
like the fact that there is a weird
albino Klingon I thought that was
different and then made it a little more
realistic it's the least interesting
version of the Klingons what we're
looking at
they've monster fied them a little well
their motives are just we need to unite
and kill you yeah because we need to
unite and kill you yeah I'm not a strong
motivation yeah hey hey all you leaders
get together you know what we really
ought to do we gotta kill that
Federation he lit the light all right
let's kill the Federation made a
convincing argument yeah I kind of liked
when the Klingons had a little bit of
there are more like like drunken sailors
well they were individuals like they
could be a drunken sailor or there could
be like Worf where they were super
uptight you're right yeah they had this
honor culture but not all of them were
all that honorable they were they were
individuals within that culture yeah
light the light for Kaylee's Kahless
feliz whatever I have the face that we
will on the United I think what it comes
down to what my major problem is I hate
the main character Michael Burnham I
find that character intensely unlikable
then none of the other characters except
for the captain has much screentime
there's like weird face science dude and
he's a he's a non character I like Saru
I thought he was my favorite character
actually oh the science officer yeah he
had a little c-3po vibe to him in the
way that he spoke and acted and he had
he had some he was the most like human
character he had a little sass to him
he's not he's not the focus of the show
the focus of the show was clearly
Michael Burnett I understand they're
going for like a Redemption thing where
she comes off as arrogant and and
reckless and and stupid
but they need they need to do something
to make me want to root for her to make
me think she's redeemable and I I don't
have it the whole time I was watching
like a year you fuck up you dumbass
the Klingon Empire is now unified and
like the only way they can stop this
threat is to disgrace the the new kind
of leader and the best way to do that
with a Klingon is to capture him a wife
that was her plan that was her plan who
the captain and and Michael being aboard
the Klingon ship they're gonna kidnap
this guy and then in a fit of a rage
after she watches the the Klingon later
they need to kidnap stab her captain she
switches her face her from stun to kill
and shoots him oh she does I want to go
back and we we should go back and we
watch this I'm pretty sure you see the
color change from blue to red it's
deliberate I didn't notice that oh yeah
I thought I know when they're running on
shooting the guys i they're stunning
them yeah I'm assuming but yeah I
thought it was like an accident or if it
was out of rage then that's that's
interesting I am pretty
sure it was out of rage and I'm sure I'm
supposed to think oh she was emotional
instead I'm thinking what the fuck are
you doing I could definitely see what
you're saying about not liking the main
character made a lot of terrible
mistakes number one starting an
intergalactic war number two
creating a martyr of a crazy Klingon who
has unified an empire of a warrior race
against the Federation's the Federation
willfully possibly willfully depending
on the Facebook setting we'll go back
and check the footage I'm pretty sure
you see the color change on the face
yeah that went by so fast I didn't
notice hey at least they got Klingon
blood right that's the the re watching
Star Trek Enterprise is the very first
thing they got wrong in the pilot it's
like like destroy them to get wrong
right off the bat wrong and that was
that was only really established in Star
Trek 6 and it was really only pink
because if it was like crimson red you
wouldn't have seen it float around the
spaceship as clearly well I think also
probably would have hurt the rating oh
maybe two yeah this is the Star Trek
movie all those blood floating around in
front of the camera I make it pink you
know make people see it better and the
MPAA will like it rich you mentioned a
nitpick what would that be
yes nitpick we didn't talk about the
plot much plot is there's a crazy
Klingon holy man who wants to turn on
the the sacred white which will glow
like a star and then it will unite the
Klingon Empire right so they turn on
this light like five minutes later all
of the heads of the Klingon houses all
show up at the same time well they
sitting around waiting for this light to
turn on
maybe maybe one of them could have been
like on the toilet first yeah like I
said this is a nitpick I understand for
the purposes of time and drama why they
would do what they did well that's
that's that's the word is drama is that
this is this
drama heavy and science Star Trek light
it's very dramatic and it's very like
conflict II and everyone's running
around and there's so much emotion going
on and I mean it's like the opposite of
Gene Roddenberry's vision of Star Trek
which is like a bunch of people who are
on a spaceship and nobody fights with
each other at all and we go around
Explorer
you
Deep Space nine and a lot of ways is
kind of the anti Star Trek
oh very much so very much so Star Trek
humanity peaceful secular we can do it
humanity can do it on our own Deep Space
nine it kind of like put a candle to
those ideas it tested them it's like
well war it's kind of inevitable what do
you do now Starfleet oh gods oh they're
just really religious race you got a
deal with and it challenged the notions
but it did it at a smart way mmm
that's what I like about Deep Space nine
but it feels like I'm not I'm not
pointing a finger directly at discovery
just like like since then all of Star
Trek from like the TNG movies on it's
just action it's not it's not really our
fleets ideals in a smart way it's just
like well the show takes place in space
that means there was and people
constantly shooting each other well it's
it's that or it's it's a little of what
what a modern audience wants now I was
watching an interview with Rick Berman
and Brannon Braga and when they're
talking about Star Trek Enterprise and
kind of why it failed and basically they
said ever since
Deep Space nine and on it had basically
been diminishing returns
it was the burnout that's that's what
went wrong would Star Trek in the first
place she went seven full fucking years
of TNG and TMZ did its thing and they
they kind of knew one2edit season seven
was getting bad Deep Space nine was okay
because like I said they were smart
enough to you know do something
different with the Trek they big they
looked at it a different life and then
and then the Voyager came along though
and it just it tried to do T&G; style
episodes and then Enterprise came along
and Enterprise started to do TNG style
episodes and then you had over a decade
of the same thing and it burp out
Enterprise flopped spectacularly and it
was like okay a prequel like Star Trek
prequel okay a hundred years before Kirk
and Spock at that point I'm like like it
would have been so nice if everything
just was chronological like I'm okay
the enterprise the original enterprise
from the 60s looking like garbage then
it's like things got better and better
and then we were going back to
enterprise and enterprise it the tech
the the the set was designed very well
to look as low-tech as it could and try
and look like a ship that may have been
built a hundred years before the
original enterprise
it's very metallic and you know it was
less comfortable more like a submarine
almost yeah yet it still managed to look
futuristic yeah I mean it looked nicer
the sets designs the sets could be built
better so that you you almost you can't
build a set as bad as the original Star
Trek set you just can't but then then
they are they all these blue jumpsuits
with the color and signe on them and
then and then it's like yeah so then
here comes Star Trek discovery and the
idea is to make a prequel Star Trek
series that takes place before TOS
wherever we're blue jumpsuits
uh-huh I'm like why do you have to wait
for someone worthy of our attention
I'm trying to save you
trying to save all of you
this this first two episodes worked
really well as as a little movie it felt
like a JJ Abrams Trek movie where
instead of villain of the week we have
warrior race of the week yeah and and it
was it was solidly done it was exciting
and the effects were great the acting
was good and everything around it was
was enjoyable but the problem with the
abrams movies is that they all kind of
burned themselves out with audiences
we're the stattrak hysterics back
remember beam me up Scotty
Pemberley set phasers to stun I remember
that and then number two comes our
number three nobody saw even though the
best one but it ran its course and it
burned itself out to me one the reason
why I love TNG so much is it's because
of its a world that I would want to live
in yes it's it's this big flagship of
the Federation they go around sure some
bad stuff happens every now and then but
really they're going around and they're
doing their thing and it's a nice big
comfortable ship and everybody gets
along and every I'm picturing myself
living in the world of Star Trek
discovering I don't really want to know
because it looks noisy everyone's tilted
and and at any moment and then ships
explode that is the most fantastic point
I have ever heard it's that that that
world fits you like a glove is a bright
and hopeful there are things that are
scary out there like the Borg and even
Klingons these Klingons I'm gonna have
nightmares from them because they're
they're like horrifying monsters which
is cool in a way are you saying that
there is no place for that TNG style
hopefulness in this modern world is
there no place for the diplomatic
ethical problem or this this faction
wants this and this faction wants that
card has to come in do the speech but
for you all get together and is there no
room for that well it's certainly not
the Orville
it feels like fanfiction the Orval it
feels like imitation TNG yes it's
definitely a knockoff but here's the
thing it has an audience and I think
it's because that audience wants that
that bright friendly Star Trek and not
the I'm going to stab you and your
fucking face Star Trek it's it's more
palatable if you if you ignore the fact
that it has it's a Star Trek and if you
just take this as it's as a new action
based science fiction show it works
except the main character is a fucking
jackass I almost I almost think they
should have started the show on the
prison ship and we get to know her first
as someone who has fallen from grace
then we get the backstory later I I
might have preferred that but whatever
possibly I mean either way I was
wondering the whole time is it because
she's got radiation in her brain forget
all that the big thing to discuss is
whether or not you can do the Star Trek
that rich Evans wants and that a lot of
fans want or do you do the Star Trek
that will appeal to more people who will
appreciate the the action stuff more and
the high drama I don't know it's it's a
hard thing it's it would be risky to do
another like weekly starship show
without the because the long-form
storytelling plot arcs are what's
popular in TV now you know yeah
there aren't any shows other than
sitcoms where you just have a
one-and-done episode like everything is
like you have to watch all 17 seasons of
the show to get anything from it you
can't yeah we can't pluck a random
episode of Mad Men out and watch it or
Breaking Bad or fucking Game of Thrones
and watch it in the middle of season 19
and and get you know what I mean yeah
it's all like that now and I think
that's how they keep you hooked because
it's a different world now with
streaming television and but that it was
in the TNG our next night
Troy faces a prearranged marriage isn't
this simply beautiful
but when the groom risks his life to
help a plague-infested ship my sons
surrounded by those horrible leopards
you binge watch a TV series and it's
like a it's like a fucking five hour
long movie that's true yeah rich what
did you think about the girl with the
robot had oh I thought that was a very
neat visual and I'm sad shook her head
blew up you liked it was straight out of
a deaf Punk video yeah that's what that
was that's what was great about it yeah
yeah I think that crossed the line a
little I I didn't mind the return of
Lobot oh yeah I mean maybe he's got like
the Geordi LaForge ears yes did you like
Star Trek discovery I I would say I
really liked it and I'm I'm excited to
see more I would like them to apply the
brake a little it worked as a pilot like
you said before
pilots are often yeah I mean going back
to TNG encounter at Farpoint oh yeah
like just hoping this isn't the usual
way admissions will go so I'm sure most
will get much more interesting whole
first season really at TNG was yeah yeah
well it took till season 3 for them to
really get the stride I mean there's
some good episodes in season 2 like
halfway through season 2 it weirdly
kicks up there's some there's some good
stuff in season 2 but seasons three and
four is is the sweet spot of TNG and
this this is JJ Abrams Star Trek
essentially for the first episode
visually at least well no yeah I know
everything I'm trying to save you trying
to save all of you
JJ the JJ films are a little bit more
fun though they're a little bit light
yeah there's a human for them too right
there's not much levity in this except
for SAR lieutenant Saru
the big tall guy okay alien face yeah he
has some humorous lines there but yeah
you're right it's it's very heavy it's
very very drama heavy if the whole show
were like that it would where the fuck
out of me
III I want that scene where and and they
think they teased it in the when they
revealed what this discovery looks like
yeah you know you want that moment where
like everybody is beaming up to the ship
bending dudududu hi I'm lieutenant
so-and-so we're gonna let's get underway
everybody take around mr. Mayweather
straighten steady
second star to the right and straight on
till morning and then you know the ship
leaves they stock get the beauty shots
of the viewed as as a movie I don't much
care for the whole story with the
Klingons just kind of dumb I don't like
the main character but seeing where they
have went with all of this like that
that trailer they showed at the the end
like here's here's what's coming next
that looks interesting like the thought
of being on some kind of prison ship
this disgraced officer I hated the pilot
episodes but I can see where they're
going with it where that could be
interesting I know why we have another
Star Trek series I'm just saying for me
I have three seasons of TOS I've got
seven seasons of TNG I've got seven
seven write of Deep Space nine and then
then Voyager and fizzled out that's
enough I can I can see where the formula
might be played out maybe that maybe
it's maybe she's doing the same thing
over again and then I if they made
something like TNG I'd be on here saying
what was the point we already had it
it's just redundant so I I can
understand the need to do something
different I just I just don't know if
the thing that's different the the
violent high drama war is exactly what
I'm looking for yeah
if you asked me that question what kind
of yes star chart show I make I would
jump well past Voyager that is now we
can do much better sets much better
special effects I would see where the
federation is so let's go 15-20 years
past that where where is the federation
at because then you can have cameos from
patrick's cameos they're gonna be
literally their exact perfect age yeah
bring back some of those cast members
but have all new crew have some kind of
like what what is the new the new thing
what's the new dilemma
facing the Federation that's not war
okay something different some other
thing that kind of threatens the
stability of the Federation or the the
morals or something and some kind of
ship is is exploring it I don't know
it's something like that because there
there's there are there's a split of the
fans there's people like me and you who
who like who like the universe who like
the worlds the ships the costumes that
the tone let's say and and there's where
we like that slow moving episode where
it's a show this episode is about data
having going on a date with a lady
there's a whole show about data
cataloging the events of his day the
card gets a little too close to the the
new geologist
and there's romance but he's he's the
captain and he has to order people to do
dangerous things what's the dilemma
there oh no she's on this planet the
planet might blow up so it's it's kind
of hard to talk about the whole show off
off the pilot up so that's what we're
we're attempting to do I would say it's
off to a good start that that montage of
what's coming up in the show really
interested me because we we've seen
we've seen many other Star Trek series
and if there is a Star Trek series
that's really dramatically good an
intense and you know in not in a space
battle way but in character conflict way
because Gene Roddenberry's been dead for
25 years okay his notion that the
characters can't have inner conflicts oh
sure sure if discovery really hits a
home run with really well-written
dramatic episodes that are that are in
the Star Trek universe but have really
well written characters and and flawed
characters you know that's another thing
too is like you look back at characters
like Harry Kim and sin Mayweather Geordi
LaForge really other than the fact that
he was
sure as the forge didn't have much of a
character right so you have you have
that that that Roddenberry influence
where everyone's happy
but the really the characters that stood
out in Star Trek were the ones that were
heavily conflicted or really interesting
dramatically your Worf you know data the
car the car lock Spock definitely being
Vulcan is more important to you then you
will stand there
speaking rules and regulations from
staff even Vulcan philosophy I met your
father died and I hate you rest of my
life see isn't this a weird thing we
have we've watched the first two
episodes of a TV show I don't feel like
I've seen a single episode yet I feel
like I have seen a preamble to something
that's going to happen next
my fingers are crossed that they're
gonna they're gonna milk something good
out of all these characters and we're
gonna get some kind of really dramatic
quality programming I don't care about
the space battle stuff as long as they
don't overdo it
discovery is a completely new way of
telling us don't try story in a way that
you might not expect
you should watch carefully the Abrams
villain of the week we have a doomsday
device stuff worked in a 2-hour format
for approximately two films one film one
film of 1.5 1.7 and then it then it
burned itself out and so I think they
need to really be mindful of that if
this if this this show cannot possibly
be every episode is the cons are coming
and now they have a super weapon and the
super weapon is going to destroy the
entire Alpha Quadrant we have to stop
that it's it's not going to be that I
think it's gonna be more more
character-driven more political more
internal conflicts and I'm hoping that
that's the case okay because I was I was
I was like halfway through that second
episode and two people were trying to
violently murder each other with swords
and I was just thinking how did the Star
Trek become this
yeah well we can only hope we can only
hope we'll be back next week no we won't
oh we won't how about this we'll be back
every now and then to talk more about
Star Trek because there's lots of little
nuggets in this like where I'm like hey
that's the Harry Kim maneuver which was
the Eureka maneuver
oh well sort of when they beam the the
warhead of the the photon torpedo onto
the body onto the body Harry Kim beams
he just beams a photon torpedo inside a
Borg ship it's like the detonator was a
bullshit like why would you people been
doing this all we're gonna beam a photon
torpedo into a corpse while you're
collecting your dead so we can murder
you all it's Star Trek yeah and then and
then she flies on a little spacesuit
I don't know those little remind me of
Star Trek 1 it's like yeah yeah and then
the the jumping through space was like
nemesis when data's flying good things
I'm seeing all these little little
little moments of Star Trek throughout
the years which will probably get when
we watch more of the show you exclude
one group of fans by doing this you
exclude another group of fans by doing
that you're trying to bring in new fans
by doing this it's almost entirely
impossible something as complex and
historical Miss Star Trek I mean goes
back 50 years yes I mean it's like how
do you do that how do you do that with a
new cast and a new crew and it's been a
decade since the last show you just do
it start fresh you start fresh future
awaits but now with ten years before
curtain goes by we have Kirk show up in
for one twenty five-year-old curtain
enterprise we couldn't cuz it was 100
years before home spa
10 years before and we got CEREC right
yeah you know that that ace is up their
sleeve
I'm sure that'll that'll come back we'll
be more certain
ratings a nose-diving bring out Spock
I'm sorry this is my son Spock how does
Spock get along with this adopted sister
Spock meet Kirk
