May 19, 2017
Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me
youtube.com/watch?v=Bd1bbjXCfyY
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/865545671658446848
redlettermedia.com/twin-peaks-fire-walk-with-me-review

I'll see you again in 25 years
well Josh before we get to our
discussion of Twin Peaks fire walk with
me I'd like to point out to you and the
audience we are filming this episode on
May 1st and I just discovered like an
hour ago
the release date of Twin Peaks fire walk
with me with May 1st Oh spirit 1992
that's awesome it's a very weird David
Lynch ian's coincidence so yeah we're
here to talk about Twin Peaks fire walk
of me David Lynch's 1992 film
universally hated at the time that came
out surprisingly so I think yes but well
I don't know it's so surprising but
we'll start by talking about the series
like two seasons everybody loved the
first season was Shu huge Twin Peaks was
parodied on Senate lives I vividly
remember that that's how I discovered
the series that's me to the first
anything 20s related I saw was the
sketch with like Mike Myers is the man
from another place Conan O'Brien's in
the background oh god that's right I
think he's deputy Andy he doesn't mean
lines but he's a writer on the show but
yeah
has there ever been a series that was
that loved and then crashed and burned
that quickly and that hard boy oh boy I
feel like there might have been yeah
well before we we get into that what did
make it special like because I think
it's safe to say we both love to impede
gifts it's one of my favorite shows and
you always have to have that little bud
because then you have to talk about the
second season well that first season
starts off so strong she's dead wrapped
in plastic so it starts off with the big
shock the homecoming queen has been
killed who killed Laura Palmer who
killed Laura Palmer all anyone was
talking about when the show came out
doesn't matter yes that's the thing that
was the the jumping-off point to
introduce all these characters and
initially how they all deal with how
Laura Palmer's death affects all of them
yeah and that's sort of what gets you
into the world of Twin Peaks and all
these wonderful characters
yeah these characters that are really
well defined and really interesting and
different for a TV show fellas don't
drink that coffee so you'd never guess
there was a fish in the percolator
although in Twin Peaks no one is really
what they seem except maybe Andy what
Twin Peaks really did in terms of an
ensemble cast is really try to be a lot
of different things within a one-hour
weekly show yes
cotton balls when I would do a rewatch
with someone had never seen it before
and they would like kind of make faces
about something like super goopy like
you know some some sort of like swimming
love thing when then the Battle of my
team you would tell this is like
well it's kind of supposed to be a soap
opera parody well that's is a hard to
mention for people that maybe haven't
watched two antiques and are going to
get into it it's pretty far removed from
that now but the idea of like when the
show was originally on like primetime
soap operas were a big thing yeah I'd
like Dallas or whatnots Land even
although those type of shows are really
popular and this was I don't wanna call
it a parody but there was definitely an
aspect of the show that was kind of
poking fun at that yeah and then and
that was purposeful they had they would
always have the heel of exactly where
all the characters parallel all the
characters between peak yeah so hey hey
okay we're doing a little bit of that so
yeah any of the kind of melodramatic
stuff like they know what they're doing
yes on the show yeah it dealt with all
of the tone shifts so well yeah which is
incredible for any show and it's one of
the scariest fucking things ever yeah on
top of that
on top of being very very funny and and
dramatic genuinely dramatic in parts and
being horrific it was one thing I will
say is I don't think as effective as
fire walk with me is I don't think
there's anything in it as terrifying as
some of the moments from the show I
would order me a couple of spots Oh God
well we'll get into that I guess but for
me for me personally there's some
moments on that show that just can't be
top and then Wednesday which does the
same thing again and Inland Empire we up
Laura Dern he kind of keeps coming at
you and you get uncomfortable
yeah just almost feeling like you're
gonna break through straight to the TV
and exactly and come get you an axe
wow that's a good first season was
definitely breakthrough TV with
everybody was talking about it it was
definitely a unique thing and then ABC
pushed David Lynch and Marc Ross the
creator's to solve the mystery yes which
was never the intention we're never
going to find out who killed Laura
Palmer this is going to be this kind of
running through line yeah so early into
the second season so yeah it's you know
we get revealed who the killer is and
then almost immediately the show takes a
pretty drastic nosedive really because
they didn't hadn't planned on it didn't
want to solve it right and they didn't
know what the fuck to do and I think
there's a common misconception that
another part of it is in the dip in
quality is that David Lynch left to work
on Wildheart right that seems to be the
perception but I think he was done with
wild at heart at that point I I think I
think it was in between yeah movie was
already shot and everything yeah it was
just more he was so kind of disheartened
by because that that was I mean the show
meant a lot to him you said like take
away the entire kind of conceit of it
yeah I think he just sort of backed away
for a while yeah which then led to all
sorts of various sort of infighting
which is actually affected fire walk
with me yeah where mark frost isn't
there because they had a falling-out
like sherilyn fenn you know it's part
part scheduling conflicts and part she's
just like felt abandoned during that
whole second season which is really too
bad because you get there a few pretty
dicey episodes although I maintain most
of it's fine and still in character if
you just took the James plot that's yes
by my suggestions anyone that hasn't
watched Twin Peaks and is going to get
into it go in knowing that the second
season is going to get very rough and
once James leaves the town fast forward
through any scene with him because it's
completely useless yes yeah and once
he's gone which is fantastic at one
point he just removes himself from the
show I'm going to Californians are just
like we don't know it yeah and then
immediately from there on the show is
working its way back up what's that and
then the addition of Windom Earle yes
which is fantastic Windom Earle is a fun
character and basically that it allows
Cooper to have a new direction right
because well yeah he once the mystery
solved the do with him for a while like
I guess I'll just stay in fun peaks
because I like it here yeah and that's
just left him rudderless until they were
able to introduce a new nemesis for him
very personal nemesis is attorney now
yeah so great first season first half of
the second season is pretty great he
gets really really bad works its way
back up and then the final episode is
one of my favorite things that David
Lynch has ever done yes
and I'm still amazed that that aired on
network television huh no I think people
are kind of a custom now two TV shows
beam very cinematic yeah I mean there's
things like Fargo or like Game of
Thrones that feels more cinematic than a
lot of movies yes
and so Twin Peaks was kind of the start
of that um and there's still aspects of
it that look like a TV show of course
because it was made in the early 90s but
but it's definitely got a shot it on
film it definitely is lit you know in a
film style yeah and just subject matter
wise but show I mean there's that that
sort of surface level or its kind of
quirky and there's funny elements but I
mean it's a dark subject matter
everything that happens with Laura
Palmer which of course goes into the
movie - yeah because yeah the the
firewalk with me is much darker tone but
it's all stuff that was in the original
series it was all there was just
actually telling the story instead of
alluding to it yeah it really like the
last episode of the show David Lynch
comes back and he's like you guys are
fucking everything up I'm going to take
over and we're going to write this ship
and so like in the middle of the second
season the Nadeem character bumps her
head and thinks she's a cheerleader or
whatever in the last episode David
Lynch's comes in he's like no correcting
that and basically tries to get the
series kind of back to what it was
originally supposed to be Lea tonally
and stylistically but by that point no
one was watching the show anymore so it
was pretty much done with you and the
end of the the season left a lot of
unanswered questions
so I think when people heard that he was
going to make a movie they'd probably
ruin the impression but he's going to
continue that and because he's David
Lynch she would be exact opposite route
and I think one of the big themes of the
movie firewalk of me is is just
constantly subverting expectations yes
the the I mean the opening shot of the
movie is television I'm getting smashed
in with a sledgehammer in case you
wondered how David Lynch felt about the
whole experience
yeah that's not subtle imagery that's
not a first time David Lynch is dumb it
either like look at the opening of blue
velvet where it's like picket fences and
roses this birds chirping and all this
and then the pet camera goes down under
the surface and there's all the bugs
like this isn't subtle but it's a good
thesis statement for what the rest of
the movie is going to be yeah but you
get it is something that I feel like
might have been a problem with the movie
is that it feels like sometimes you kind
of have to watch Twin Peaks or at least
have a working knowledge the overall
story I think I think works is its own
movie but there's so many other details
that resonate more if you're familiar
with the mythology that the show is set
up
I just and this is just kind of the way
I feel because I've obviously got no way
of knowing but I feel like if you hadn't
seen Twin Peaks
you might things would just seem a
little empty in certain places yeah why
do these people care so much well that's
the big question is I know I've heard
people say like I'm going to get into
Twin Peaks so I watched the show first
or do i watch the movie first come on
movies a prequel so I should watch it
first right don't do that no no no don't
the movie is a prequel but in certain
aspects it's also a sequel yeah because
in the weird world of Twin Peaks time
and space or transcend yeah differently
than they do on earth so yeah and
earlier there are things in the movie
that happened after the death of Laura
Palmer but certain characters show up
and not only that spoilers galore and
there's that too yeah well I think that
might be some people's criticisms of the
movie is like we know the backstory of
Laura Palmer so why do we need to see
this well because we're seeing it
through her perspective to show her
motivations throughout the movie we have
to re-watch and re-experience some of
the stuff that we already know and I
think that's important to illustrate how
just damaged she isn't actually she
doesn't have any idea what she's doing
and she's trying to do right and has no
idea what right is anymore maybe well
before we get to Laura Palmer we have a
whole other story line going on but for
half-hour of the movie which the first
time I watched it dearly loved like this
is like I'll watch that movie so much
fun yeah the movie opens on bizarro
world Twin Peaks
the town of Deer meadow we're in Twin
Peaks we got the double our diner and
it's this nice friendly diner with
friendly waitresses and this we get this
dumpy hats caps as I was called you
dumpy diner with an old kind of rude
waitress you want to hear about our
specials we don't have any so we get the
the police station a never ever lose
asshole everybody's a dickhead
Theresa banks head ring any idea what
happened to it we go to phone here got a
little ring I do like that that's almost
that's set up immediately because even
if you're not super familiar with David
Lynch in film as opposed to in the TV
show they're confronted immediately with
you know the first thing that happens is
Gordon Cole's yelling at the top of his
lungs at shat Desmond in the field yes
okay Gordon re-check Desmond who's
played by Chris Isaak I think does a
fine job how he's great yeah wonderful
very uh like Cooper without the coffee
the opening deer meadow stuff is very
funny very funny we get the instead of
the Great Northern we get a shitty
trailer park run by Harry being run by
Harry Dean Stanton just things like more
shit I gonna do now yeah ventually they
start discovering some parallels with
Laura Palmer which we know they don't
know that obviously probable cause
repeated blows to the back of the head
by a bunch of two singles object
we're here raised and check goes to look
for something else because Teresa banks
had a ring yes a ring that plays an
important part in the rest of the movie
yes and I guess we'll get into it
because I'm not sure I fully understand
it I think I've got a good grasp on it
okay well we'll get to that a little bit
later I guess but but he goes missing
then he reaches for the ring and then it
just sort of cuts and then he disappears
from the movie yes that happened thanks
for stopping by the movie good topic but
that's when we cut to the FBI offices
Gordon it's 10:10 a.m. on February 16th
I was worried about today because of the
dream I told you about and he comes
across very different than he does on
the show yeah the show is a little more
chipper and upbeat and he seems like
distracted or concerned and from the
very beginning and he's not even getting
like like I guess there's a deleted bit
that kind of introduces improper or
there's like like almost a reveal like
hey it's Cooper it's that character you
love and the movie the final cut of the
movie is just a wide shot and he just
kind of walks into the room Gordon yeah
I'm not making a big deal no fanfare no
fan the service just hey he's worried
about something yeah and that's one
David Bowie shows up
for a very very very awkward and
truncated scene I actually have a lot of
problems with this scene yeah who do you
think this is they're mostly ol noggin
yourself what the hell are these later
hours that Special Agent Dale Cooper
for God's sakes Jeffrey Freeman
and I noticed that even before I think I
saw the movie before I really knew about
how much had been cut out of the movie
but even just watching it in the current
form that it's in you can go you can it
feels like a highlight reel of a scene
that was cut to the point where it's
like maybe you should just taken this
out completely well but it's important
because it introduces the apartment over
the convenience store in that case leave
the scene intact so it makes sense
because when we get to the deleted
scenes that whole sequence with David
Bowie and showing the the characters
from some other place about a
convenience store it's great it's a
really great sequence Jeffery's you've
been gone damn near two years it was a
dream we live inside a green David Bowie
is awesome in it you've got a weird
southern accent kind of like Gary Oldman
and Fifth Element yeah yeah that's true
and it's wonderful and David who is
great in it but it's truncated so much
in the movie that it's actually
frustrating a crossfade
he's gone he's gone Albert Karla front
dad I've got the front desk now he was
never here this is one week up to the
the story proper that first half-hour
lots of interesting weird quirky David
Lynch stuff yeah it's very funny and on
the movie takes a pretty sharp turn
after that means wouldn't help you oh
god I mean it's very much a David Lynch
movie but it's definitely lacking his
sense of humor that a lot of his stuff
has yeah it gets very dark there on ER
it's actually as far as I'm concerned
outside it may be the Elephant Man for
me it's like his most kind of
emotionally resonant movie yeah and it's
very sad and it's very dramatic in a way
like he gets accused a lot David Lynch
of kind of like sensationalizing the
violence in his movies or like I know
Roger Ebert famously accused him of like
exploiting his actresses yeah but he
asked Isabella Rossellini in this movie
to be undressed and humiliated on the
screen as few actresses ever have been
certainly in non porno roles he put
these CC like a blue velvet came out or
knee like Isabella Rossellini is being
exploited and she's like what are you
talking about it fine but I think and
this is part of what I think really
drove David Lynch to make the movie is I
think he kind of fell in love with the
character of Laura Palmer's or the show
got off track of yours and then I think
this to me is sort of David Lynch trying
to give a bit more dignity to that
character yeah I was in the show I mean
uniformly everybody loves her no matter
what terrible shit she's into yeah you
know and she got into some awful things
but everybody loved her yeah and so I
feel like that kind of maybe resonated
with David Lynch's like well why did
everybody love her
yeah and what was there and he wanted to
tell that that side of the story well
and I think that adds to the movie too
is because obviously we know what
happens we know Laura Palmer is going to
get killed we know a lot of the
backstory that the movie is sort of
flushing out but what it does is adds
more attention to everything in the
movie even because we do know where it's
going
it makes everything so much more tragic
like you just want to reach into the
screen and like like helper like I don't
know if I've ever been as affected by a
character in a movie as by Laura Palmer
yeah and I think a good chunk of that is
Cheryl Lee's performance yeah I don't
know why she didn't go on to have like
she's fantastic in this movie and she
wrote a borderless and she might be the
best screamer oh yeah in a movie yeah
she's she's absolutely the you know if
you don't get anything else I was maybe
just watching her performance she's able
to Telegraph some things that are just
like some of the stuff that was the most
terrifying for me then why do I look at
this finger here Laura did not wash your
hands before dinner don't
did you get this from you let that
evening at supper Leland was being very
just that femur like she's got her by
her cheek yeah and she's just like like
paralytic with terror yeah and she's
just you you she gets it all out through
the screen and like you you're there
with her and it's fucking terrifying
yeah well that's that's a like I've
mentioned David Lynch sometimes gets
accused of sort of having sort of like
an ironic detachment from his material
or plaintively little kind of flip in
and there's none of that in this movie
it's completely stripped away and it's
just I mean let the movie essentially
like once you get past the first deer
meadow stuff the first half-hour which
is all the quirky stuff yeah it's a
pretty I mean there's there's ties to
the show and there's ties to like the
supernatural elements of the show the
mythology but at its core the movie is
just sort of like an examination of this
damaged person and and how she is sort
of dealing or not dealing with the
effects of abuse yeah and it's so
straightforward as far as those emotions
go yeah um you know she's on all sort of
like tons of cocaine involved with all
sorts of shady cut characters involved
with that but still is trying to hold on
to her best friend and her family yeah
while also trying to not drag them down
with her yeah which is a big part of the
movie yes I had the mood swings that she
goes through involved with that were
like the whole scene where uh Donna
decides to get brave and follow Laura
out on her adventures and ends up in the
pink room accompanied by one of my
favorite pieces of music of all time
definitely one of my favorite piece of
music in a movie yeah
the track had just called the pink room
yeah it's so wonderful I wish I wish
that was the soundtrack to my life I
wish I just walked around and whatever I
was doing that music was just playing
I guess he always is really good with
sound but the sawdust will be
specifically a lot of the ambient noise
the rumbling there's parts where like a
the sound around is so loud you can
barely hear people and that equanimity
is yeah but and moves up yeah oh hi so
loud that they have to subtitle the
actors yeah
which was confusing my first all this
movie was on DVD and they didn't have
the sound mixed properly oh you can hear
everybody but it was still subtitled and
I like what's happening yeah so on the
blu-ray they've corrected that yeah
that's proper where you can understand
you can't make out what anyway single
mumble yeah and yeah that I love that
that's like it's supposed to be such
this different dimension in this room
and yeah everything's you get a century
overwhelming kind of thing yeah what's
that
the way the lorem Laura's shit place is
shifting her mood within that scene as
well we're at the beginning of it she
doesn't really want not to come but then
kind of dares or two and then you know
it's basically pushing her to do these
things and also pulling her away from it
right back and forth and she can't
figure out what to do which eventually
ends up Laura just like pulls her away
and they they leave ultimately showing
her like this is what I do don't do this
you
when she finds out that Bob is her
father it really kind of just a jump
starts everything that's wrong and you
kind of get how this is going to be the
end yeah from there because her secure
home life as it was like she believed in
her parents and I was just like now gone
well that's one thing I'll say is in the
deleted scenes there's a little bit more
of her interactions with her parents
yeah early on and I think those things
would have helped the movie a bit you
will never be a smoker if you don't
start oh and I sort of playful and then
there's a dinner scene where they're all
like laughing and having a good time
they get to be a real real family their
real family and we don't really get that
in the final cut of the movie yeah well
something that I think a movie and it's
been a while since I've watched the show
so maybe I'm missing miss remembering it
but it seems like the show it's very
clear-cut like Leland Palmer is
possessed by Bob and Bob is doing these
heinous thing it's very cut and dry and
the movie kind of it's a little more not
ambiguous but you definitely get a sense
that there's some darkness to Leland
himself outside of Bob if an even that
dinner scene where he's like talking
about how she needs to wash her
fingernails yeah like is that Bob is
that him it's a little it's a little
more gray than it is on the show which I
think makes Leland more interesting
because obviously what happens to Laura
is pretty tragic but even Leland himself
like you can see him struggling with
these darker aspects of his personality
yeah yeah and it's a question of how
much of this like how long has Bob been
there yeah and you could read it if you
don't you know if you're not looking for
those answers you can read a lot of
different ways and it definitely isn't
spelled out in the movie yeah and you
know some of it is good I've always kind
of seen it like he ray wise does that
sigma2 kind of changes his expression so
they go up that's Bob okay you know he
Telegraph's a little more at certain
times but other times he doesn't know
now we talk about how great uh Carol Lee
is in the movie we have to mention ray
wise yes
the second best thing in this movie I'll
sit down but not a one of us is going to
start eating until Laura washes her
hands wash your hands he's kind of the
best thing at everything he's in though
yeah I didn't have to do any just shows
up in something and you're like hey it's
very wide yeah I think he's all better
he is good but he also does a fantastic
job just with a difficult role they even
just the bits and pieces where he's
where Mike the one-armed man is in the
in the RV comes screaming by yell and
you've got the ring on his finger yeah
well that's another part where some of
the sound effects are so loud you can
barely they need like yelling and you
can barely hear them can't really you
can't really tell what's going on but
they're both just freaking out but we do
get we get back to the ring there again
yes explain the ring I is the ring sort
of meant to kind of protect floral yeah
okay it's what confuses me about that is
earlier when Cooper's in the Red Room
and he's saying don't take the ring
don't take the ring Laura don't take the
ring I think it's because he doesn't he
doesn't understand necessarily what the
ring is telling me
well yeah but even stuck being Cooper
he's just like I don't I don't have a
good feeling about that and you're super
supernatural shenanigans going on here
anyway from all this down so don't do
this but it's it turns out it's like
it's kind of a protective thing because
we're getting to the very end
she has ditched James run off into the
woods to meet up with Jacques and Leo
and run at Pulaski
you have to kind of remember when you're
watching this all these girls are
supposed to be like 1617 fucking years
old yes and you have to remember that
you have to keep that in mind because it
makes it even I mean it makes it worse
but it made some way it's important yeah
that's not something in rewatching it I
was thinking about early on is you know
there's the show the TV show was a few
years earlier where a few years later
than that and I'm sure when they shot
the show those care those actors were
probably in there like early 20s or
something yeah and now we're a few years
even more removed from that so seeing
Laura Palmer seems early like walk down
the halls of the high school I was like
yes he's pushing it yes I was looking
like a high schooler that kind of breaks
up when Leland shows up well this is
yeah he's sort of struggling he's kind
of going back and forth between himself
and turning into Bob yeah yeah so what
we know about this point the Bob wants
to possess Laura yeah and Lee Lydon shut
the door but not before Mike can throw
the ring in
you
and that protects her from being
possessed right so Bob can't get into
her so he gets mad and kills her instead
it definitely transcends like it's not
like it's not like a like a Henry
portraitist a serial killer or something
like that we're kind of following at it
no it is transcendent and yeah it's very
style it's almost like operatic
you have like a bunch of Henry portrait
of a serial killer it's very sort of
straightforward and brutal and almost
like documentary style any of this which
is definitely more stylized but as far
as like understanding the emotions of
what's happening I think it's way more
resonant than something that for sure
would portray this type of story or like
a girl that's suffering from abuse and a
more kind of traditional way and a more
where it comes might become like kind of
saccharine or bitchy like this is just
sort of like the emotions feel real even
if we're not seeing it in a stark
realistic way yeah yeah the general
presentation and this goes for the
series as well it's just a bit of a
magical reality thing like it's a it's
heightened yeah but everything that
comes through emotionally definitely
escapes that or is separate from that
and you don't doubt any you know any
characters or what they're feeling yeah
practice especially towards the end well
I do think at this point she kind of
Laura Palmer is very aware of what her
fate is going to be I almost feel like
she's sort of like sacrificing herself
in order to let run at Pulaski get away
- yeah I think that's an aspect of it
and well I think in a way kind of
protect everybody like that this whole
movie is her sort of like trying to keep
the people around her from kind of
succumbing to the darker aspects of
their personalities in the way that she
has yeah there's a scene earlier on when
she runs into the log lady outside the
barn when this kind of fire starts it is
very hard without the tender vows of
innocence burned first and the wind
rises and then all goodness is in
jeopardy
I kind of took like the implications of
that or almost that like eventually this
evil can-can you know everyone can
succumb to this yep and that's sort of
like a reflection of the deer meadow
town at the beginning where everyone's
just like a miserable asshole yeah when
Peaks everybody's nice and you like
these characters and so like it's almost
like Laura Palmer's is sacrificing
herself to make sure that the rest of
the town is safe she's like Donnie Darko
kind of but he's really know what else
is going on on that Tom behind her back
any western people a lot of shit
happened a lot of shit going on behind
the scenes in 20 yeah I do love that
FEMA because it could why why was the
log lady hanging out at the bangbang bar
by herself like blog lady log lady stuff
yeah she's getting tired of the log
wants to meet someone new who knows a
nice lumberjack maybe yeah and then
Laura ascends to the to the Black Lodge
and Cooper comforts her yes up until the
new series was announced to me it felt
like a good conclusion to the Laura
Palmer story in that the movie ends with
her smiling yeah like there's there's a
comfort in you know she's out of the
misery of you know she's transcended to
something else yes but now it almost
feels like like that's a setup for
what's going to happen on the new Syria
it doesn't like it really felt like a
conclusion to me like it finally gave
Laura Palmer as a character some piece
really end of the movie yeah so I'm
curious how they're going to expand on
that with the new show he'll be
interested in that
so for the longest time this movie was
the end of Twin Peaks a lot of people
hated it because it wasn't like the show
but it's a very good movie just in its
own right absolutely I agree and for
years I was fascinated by the deleted
material which there were always stories
about I would fought for a while I kind
of got tired of it because I was like
we're never going to say this but I
would read these stories and I'm like oh
the footage is there's legal
entanglements it's owned by some French
company or something I really thought we
were never going to see it at a certain
point and a couple years ago I guess
they worked that out
yeah paramount got the rights to
everything 90 minutes of related
material which was pretty exciting after
years and years of one not thinking that
was ever going to come out and just kind
of assuming Twin Peaks was done for so
to see all this stuff and a lot of it I
can understand why it was cut short
because it really does make the movie
focus more on Laura and her story by
deleting it some of it I think would
have helped me like like be full David
Bowie seen that for sure our of the
family earlier family stuff yeah the
Palmers would have been nice I mean that
whole and again bringing some Becket
back some of the David Lynch humor I was
a 2x4 I ordered a two-body fold
you see mr. Midler the wood comes in
over here and it goes out over there now
when it's over here it's exactly two by
four but when it comes out over there
it's exactly one and 9/16 by three and
9/16 it's that way all over our land you
wouldn't understand
let's talk about the beach scene because
I love that as an isolated scene is
absolutely nothing to do with anything
yeah just one day one day at the mill
peeps have an argument with the old
banker guy from the last episode I think
it's the bloat up and explosion is I
want a not to tour and peeps trying to
explain them actually mean anything yeah
there's got to be an industry-standard
but rather than cutting industry the
very David Lynch scene and it's nice to
see Jack Nance to the end on the movie
any world and yeah bits and pieces like
that we're like a little bit of
character stuff with big add yeah and
Norma I'm a Dean a little bit with
Shelley and Leo so like stop that's
basically just kind of like bits and
pieces adding on to the the characters
either from the show and you get to see
a little more of them right and it
definitely changes the tone of the movie
more towards what the TV show is which I
think because so much of the movie is so
like serious and intense I think having
those little bits here and there would
be awkward it wouldn't have that kind of
like smooth transition of tones that the
show has yeah where everything's
balanced pretty well 90% of the movie is
a terrifying nightmare yeah so having
these tiny little bits with like I
wanted a 2x4 I think would have been
awkward yeah I just yeah it kind of it's
just an absurdity and just whether you
know David Lynch is all about absurd
whether you know whether it's dark or
light it still isn't you know you can
step back from most scenes in any
anywhere in that movie and you like
isn't this kind of fucking nuts now yeah
and that's you know that's in different
tones well then we get to the end but
until that because there's the end of
the series which is the most frustrating
and amazing thing ever
good coups trapped in the Black Lodge
yes and that's how the series ends
you're like what the flag the first time
I saw and I was flipping out I was like
that's it one
directed by David later so then when
you're watching the deleted scenes from
this movie and we elaborate more on what
happens after that
you're going right back to bed but I
haven't brushed my teeth yet
but it's nothing no it's just here the
point where it's like why did you even
film this you're not elaborated on in
any way I must feel like that's where
they like they shot it but like I'm on
the set and just like well I can use
that footage if it cuts right in from
where is you know where where you hit
him you know he said his head almost
yeah Amir is bleeding and then you know
uh Hank breaks the door down and they
get and he and doctor hey or get him you
know and it's like give him a sedative
and just like I fell I thought they were
going to do something just elaborate on
it and no but they do at that point
bring Annie back yes the cut - Annie in
hospital and any saying the same thing
that she was saying in Laura's dream
yeah but she has the ring on and the
nurse gets the ring like there's
something happened there just didn't
have anything Boober there's one shot
that got cut out where Laura is walking
up the stairs and we get the idea
throughout that the ceiling fan in the
hallway oh yes kind of a trigger well
then the spirits they they kind of
travel through electricity yeah
Discover's
yeah and so there's a point where
Laura's halfway up the stairs the light
starts strobing and they cut like it's a
really tight close-up of Sara Lee yeah
and her face just like into this crazy
Rick this like super slow motion sound
is just like ah but it is interesting
that it differs from like it's not like
a creepy atmosphere thing now it's more
direct than that yeah it's just it's not
yeah it's not it's not a shock but it's
just here it is way too long in your
face yeah well in over like the close-up
is so extreme yeah it takes you out of
your comfort zone and that's an
interesting thing to point out with the
movie as opposed to like the way the TV
show is shot which is the TV show is
shot relatively traditionally for a TV
show but the movie is lots of close-ups
lot closer to Laura Palmer space inside
people throat inside yes exactly we're
literally answering people body yeah so
yeah it's definitely more it makes the
movie feel way more intimate than the TV
show delve in additional cost to focus
yeah in addition to the story itself
being more intimate yeah
we're not going to talk too much about
expectations or anticipation for the new
show I've been avoiding it like trying
not to find out anything about it I have
a feeling the show is going to upset
people and I don't know I don't know
what it's going to be because it's David
Lynch so it's hard to say but we're I to
guess it'll probably be closer in like
tone and style to fire walk with me than
the original series I would think so
although mark frost is again involved
yeah us to be a little bit more
narrative yeah through line going
through it but I don't think it's going
to be all hot coffee and cherry pie no I
don't think so
and it's interesting to think about how
this is this is basically bringing David
Lynch back to filmmaking as well like
he's been from you know a few years and
it's just saying like you've done some
of the films just going to do making it
weird music and painting and yeah
whatever he wants yeah and that's what
makes this new show kind of special is
that like because lots of things are
getting revived now it was like fuller
house and whatever else but this is
something that you know is only coming
back because it's something that David
Lynch really would has an interest in
doing yeah and it's just even if it
wasn't when Peaks
it's 18 hours of new directed David
Lynch material yeah which is like a like
an embarrassment of riches exactly so I
can't wait I'm really looking forward to
it I love Twin Peaks
I love David Lynch and just more of what
we love if it well if it's anything like
the movie it'll also subvert a lot of
expectations yeah because firewalk of me
is very very different from the original
series in a lot of ways tonally
stylistically and I have a feeling the
new show is going to be its own thing as
well so yeah it'll be interesting to see
how much more he'll be able to shoot it
like he does his last few films because
obviously you'll be working with digital
still because he's all about that
digital stuff it's not like a
consumer-grade SD camera like Inland
Empire it I would hope not mass spec but
I wouldn't doubt that we'll see echoes
of some of the Inland Empire stuff
because it's like going back from fire
walk with me somebody look at the
close-ups and things like
well and just the themes the whole like
sir zoology yes of a person yeah which
that's sort of Twin Peaks on that's kind
of every David Lynch movie yeah you
really got into that whole idea to me
well in when you get to like Lost
Highway or even Mulholland Drive it's
it's where the person is literally two
people right in Lost Highway it's Bill
Pullman and then he becomes belf asar
Gettys a completely different person and
what that's I think what makes
firewalker me different is that it's
just sort of with well I mean you have
Bob but with Laura Palmer it's just to
kind of have some the same person yeah
the light side and the dark side and
she's struggling with that so it's more
of an internal kind of emotional
struggle as opposed to literally beating
two people in fire walk with me we're
definitely looking at the struggle of
this person she's trying to figure out
who she's meant to be in the first place
which one's right or wrong or which one
is she's destined to be right and I
guess to wrap it up that's kind of
that's why I love the movie so much is
that all the weird stuff set aside when
you get to the heart of it it's this
really emotional and and tough story of
your just watching this girl kind of
struggling with with these demons yeah
it's not an easy watch by any means but
it's wonderfully written the acting is
spectacular you've got for the most part
you know it stands on its own and it's
definitely a piece that's unique both in
Twin Peaks continuity and David Lynch
even though it's got some echoes is
nothing that's really quite like fire
walk with me
