Jul 21,2017
George A. Romero's Martin
youtube.com/watch?v=C47zRs6SPZM
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/888382888894509056
redlettermedia.com/george-a-romeros-martin-review

hello and welcome to another review I'm
back with Josh and this is a review
we've been planning for a while we've
been talking about doing this movie for
quite a long time and we're sort of
prompted to finally do it
yeah because unfortunately George Romero
has passed away and we're talking about
his under scene film Martin will talk a
little about why it's under steam for
various reasons yeah well people asked
when we did Dawn of the Dead
Mike and I were did dawn of the Dead and
I mentioned the fact that it's not
commercially available or and I think
some people don't understand why that
might be because that's one of those
famous horror movies ever yeah but the
back story is that the producer of that
film and this film Martin Richard
Rubenstein he owns the rights to it and
he's just asking a ridiculous amount to
license both of these abilities and it's
weird because I certainly noticed it I
mean everybody seen you know the pile of
dawn reissues where it's just like all
these different editions and all the
this and that the other thing in Martin
a couple additions on each format maybe
if you're lucky I do have VHS so here's
the an old big box VHS version of Martin
because when this was the Anchor Bay DVD
that came out god I don't even know
twelve fourteen years ago yeah and then
there was a another DVD maybe ten years
ago and then that's it and that one has
the wrong aspect ratio
yeah let's get into what Martin is for
people that don't know it's a vampire
movie
jared romero of course most famous for
zombies but this is his similarly kind
of skeptic view of the world's take on
vampire mm-hmm
yeah it's just it's everything that you
know about vampires
apart from vampires drink blood that's
the only thing that martin does yes
that's a vampire thing it's a very
laid-back movie it's not very driven
story eyes but the basic story is that
martin he gets off a train into
Pittsburgh much Matthias Ikuta cop we
must take another train he's moving in
with his cousin who's way way older than
him I always had my mind that is his
uncle but it's his cousin Luke Oh so if
cousin picks him up at the train station
and they go back to the cousin's house
his name is kuda mm-hmm and kuda lets
him in the house and says welcome to my
house by the way you're a fucking
vampire and eventually I will destroy
you vampire first I will save your soul
and I will destroy you and you're like
what Oh what is it family what is this
relationship yeah it's very uh
front-loaded in terms of just everything
you need to need to know is in the first
15 minutes yeah I'm great
you may come and go but you will not
take people from the city if I hear a
single time I will destroy you without
salvation and yeah your vampire you're
84 years old I'm going to save your soul
and then destroy your body and you're
gonna have to come to work tomorrow
morning come work in my shop yeah I told
my grand my granddaughter who lives here
not to talk to you but she will don't
eat her
you know whatever these are our family
dynamics and the basic idea is that
Martin may or may not be a vampire
because he doesn't have Fang this is me
you can see his reflection as he keeps
telling his cousin there is no magic
yeah I'm not I'm not Nosferatu No
my pool I'm your cousin Martin see you
see you see it isn't magic
even I'm use one there's no magic in the
world which is like the ultimate George
Romero thesis statement yes it runs
through all over the arc and he says
it's such and we should point out it's a
very like somber movie yeah very kind of
sad movie and Martin is is played by
John Ann places' been in a number of
George Romero movies inaudibly including
Creepshow not that you'd know it as well
as he plays a Puerto Rican on the
rooftop in the beginning of Dawn of the
Dead that's right that happens he he
plays Martin and he plays him very it's
an interesting performance and it's the
the performance that kind of carries the
whole movie because he does some
horrible things as a his version of a
vampire is he doesn't have fangs
he sedates these women right and it uses
a razor to cut their arms and that's how
he sawed drinks their blood and so these
are horrible things but then you see him
in these scenes where he's not doing
that when he's just kind of wandering
around Pittsburgh or working in the shop
and he's such an innocence to him yeah
Wow really it has two blades a real one
in the slit blade you hold the real one
and pull the slip blade up things only
seem to be magic there is no real magic
and as you kind of learned throughout
the movie you kind of learned more about
because at first you're like why doesn't
cousin think he's a vampire where is
this coming from but you get the more
you have to learn more about their
family he is young for Norfolk there
have been 9 such a person in the family
that has please to the life mosket is
one right history and how this has
almost been like pounded into his head
his whole life Martin had his father
until he was 32 is just a boy look in
the book Christina we have the books of
the family did you ever look cause the
books the books will show it oh damn
books they can be burned that's where
you get your horrible ideas that's the
boy himself asked Musti he what I do
he's unbalanced he's mad and you and
those folks have driven him Joey yeah
the important thing is that is that his
family believes well not even you know
Christine the younger the other cousin
because they're both cousins and just
generations apart threat um she doesn't
even believe it so it's down to CUDA and
Martin but if they believe then it's
ultimately true for the movie whether it
is or not because everything that
happens is a consequence of that but
yeah like if you take away that that
vampire idea he's a rapist and a
murderer and is awful but he's
completely sympathetic throughout the
whole movie and I don't know if that's
just because you know obviously he's a
protagonist but if that's because he's
trying to understand himself throughout
the whole thing as well like he he's got
some things locked in but other things
he still it seems like he's trying to
figure out how to fit himself into a
real real world and you have there's
there's a lot of religious themes
running through the movie but it's not
it's not like a an attack on religion or
anything because you have George Romero
himself shows also freeze he's like a
young hip pre any of khuda' who's a
older guy with these ancient kind of
ideas of his religion and his values do
you believe in demons father Howard do
you believe the devil can enter a
person's soul I don't know what to
believe about that you don't know father
Howard you see this is what I mean this
is not what an old person wants to hear
from a priest and there's this wonderful
scene or invite George Amer over to
dinner and they're chatting after dinner
and and khuda' is like just talking
about you know his family's history and
their religious beliefs and Romero's
like stifling laughter and like trying
to you know be laid-back about it I
think it's a difficult issue something
that has to be dealt with
grandfather stoppage you're going to
scare father hell right away fascinating
subject actually you should talk to
fathers of limas about this you won't
see that film The Exorcist he said they
did it all wrong zuly Maas I don't
suppose you saw them
that was great I love that Emily pushes
them off on the older priest for this
guy yeah the older priest comes over and
does some writes and Martin just kind of
stared at him for a while
look Emily yeah until he just leaves
yeah so it definitely fits in with
Romero's other movies which are always
kind of about kind of frustration at a
lack of progress as far as like ideas
and I mean that's the Living Dead movies
are about a new society devouring the
old one and the movie is very much kind
of in that same vein but with more
vampire and religious themes yeah and
also kind of lays the brings the the sex
part of the vampire lore to the front
very obviously like it's always
connected to sex
well the opening scene on the train sets
up the entire movie perfectly which is
one it establishes sort of romanticized
idea of how these things go or sort of
the black and white flashbacks which is
like he's about to he's on the train and
he's about to break into this woman's
room to kill her and drink her blood
and right before he opens the door we
come to this wonderful black and white
moment and then we come back to reality
she in the bathroom here the toilet
flushes she comes out with like watching
a cup a smile like a facemask and she's
like blowing her nose and so before she
passes out after he sticks her with the
needle she's just like saying he's like
oh it's like you fucking bad tear it up
recreate all I think I really just noted
that most of this time around but the
the way the editing phase changes there
yeah like initially it's really pretty
frenetic it's just quick cuts and then
once he finally is in the room passed
that first flashback he's in the room
the tempo slows way down when the action
starts up yeah and so that's a really
interesting way to kind of settle you
into the tempo of the movie it's just
like things are going to things are
going to happen we're not going to look
away yeah but it's going to be real and
a lot of different ways yeah well and
then there's even to that that whole
sequence there's even a money shot
the blood just pours on them and it's
it's sexual and disturbing absolutely
and that's intentional but yeah like you
mentioned the editing I always say like
the the best aspect of George Romero's
kind of craft is his editing and when
Mike and I talked about Donald ed we
talked about how sloppy the actual
filmmaking is because it's something on
that scale and I don't mean it as a bad
thing but it's like you know low budget
movie limited crew or shooting right in
the small we have limited hours you're
just kind of running and gunning and
getting what they could and then he made
it all work with with his wonderful
editing right and this movie also has
great editing but I think because it's a
smaller scale you're there's a lot more
focus on the shots in the craft of the
filmmaking yeah it's such a it's such a
I mean it's only got a few locations
it's not a huge story sorry we'll just
focus in and tell like it still looks
you know sheepish I mean the blood is
what's more tomato soup it's it color
yeah that's the same kind of Dawn of the
Dead
yeah my burgred voice well speaking of
the blood
we should mention Tom Savini yes who
plays honky boyfriend in this movie
Indianapolis it's a good job I like here
just work there anybody also did the
effects for it and I've had since I was
a little kid I had his book called grand
illusion mmm and it's interesting
because I was doing effects that he
utilized in Martin before I had ever
seen Martin because of a book because I
had blurred and there's a whole chapter
on Martin and they like the simplest
effects like that you'd be like dog now
but as a little kid it was like movie
magic
yeah like the whole you know when he
slices the arms it's just you know a
little like bladder with blood and you
run a tube behind the razor blade and
the razor blades dulled down and you
squeeze it out the bullseye I think I
have footage if I can find it I'll play
it here footage from a movie I made when
I was in probably fifth grade oh man
someone cutting their arm just like that
and then we utilize that same effect
again in the recover years later up so
it's the simplest trick but it's
effective it works tried-and-true mm-hmm
yeah there aren't as many obviously
because it's telling a smaller story
there aren't as many set pieces really
just kind of the
the arm cuts yeah for the most part but
for what they are they are very grisly
and it kind of underlines that idea that
we're talking about the Martins not good
yes well speaking of set pieces and
editing we start about the what I think
is maybe the best sequence in any Romero
movie ever which is the home invasion
that happens about halfway to that movie
where Martin is sort of because he goes
out of the city to get his victims -
because that's what kuda said to do so
it kind of turning out takes at reality
get some ice cream and kind of watches
this woman sees her husband leaves and I
think he over here there's the husband
say that like he won't be back for
another day or something yeah it's a bit
as a business trip yeah so so in
Martin's mind she's there all alone
sneaks into her house opens her bedroom
door okay who are you oh my god oh let's
not get excited about this now that's no
reason to get upset about anything okay
I don't know him
and then that guy's like freaked out
because he thinks that Martin must be
your husband or something and then she's
like I don't know him that's like Oh
like gives me goose bumps just that idea
like like I don't know who that is yeah
something but an entire sequence then
where yeah it's like a cat mouse
throughout the house yes if you give me
a number of Mercy Hospital thank you
wait a minute
I got to do again that Sal was the
business with the phone like he picks up
a phone in one room and she's trying to
dial nine-one-one
who are you on the other side he's just
like pushing buttons and fucking with
them and just like the pacing of the
cutting back and forth it's it's really
like it's so like the editing is so
precise yeah put on it here's another
foreigner toast
downstairs game roast and the sound
effects are very weird I don't know if
that's realistic for that era but it's
like these people people talk it's very
bizarre and then he finally managed the
boyfriend or whatever the the affair
having man finally managed to get
outside but then Martin tracks him down
in the woods we're supposed to be there
it's what's supposed to be their work to
be they're really just slowly yeah it's
like ever anything of a like a full
teeth like it like a zombie of the
eyeball going into the sliver and yeah
yeah really so I'm low no that's really
uncomfortable and he's it almost just
kind of feels like Martin's just it's
more it take someone because was more of
a punishment and yes here's how I have
to wrap this up and I didn't want to do
this but well he feels betrayed in a way
yes he has like a relationship with
these women even though they don't know
him yeah they're real you know Sarah's
victims and through them as I mentioned
the black and white flashbacks they show
the yes sort of a romanticized idea of
all these these events and so yeah
reality seeps in
speaking of reality in romance though
cooter runs a deli and one of Martin's
jobs is to deliver various packages
around to you know do you know you could
just call and have people bring meat to
you back in those days I have to walk
there but they'll get there exactly and
one of the customers he runs across is
this lonely housewife
you remind me of an old cat I his dad
let me mess it down funny I had an old
alley cat used to sit on the floor and
stare up at me with those eyes he just
listened and listened till I got it all
out of my system never said anything
else that's for character overall she's
wrapped up in her problems yeah and it's
just kind of fighting to make her way
through life as it stands right and so
she starts to flirt with Martin really
just as a just something to pass the
time it seems like almost yeah that's
the interesting part it's not like a
romantic relationship and really the
whole thing is so sad
yeah I mean the movie is as a whole it's
just so sad yeah I can't have kids I can
never have kids I have something wrong
inside what do you think good for me bad
no pain that's why you're so nice to
have around Martin you don't have a
thing but there's there's a there's a
tenderness to it though still for the
both of them their solace in in that end
that's again him trying to relate to the
to the outside world I'm sorry I'm the
complaining old housewife you don't like
it get out
hey I don't mean you I mean me yeah
that's sort of like inability to move on
kind of place throughout the movie -
yeah I'm talking about the sort of
outdated kind of religious beliefs of
khuda and then you have like Christine
played by George Romero's eventual wife
I leave tomorrow morning with Arthur but
don't worry we won't have any offspring
we won't even wind up together authors
just my way out
yeah her talking about wanting to get
out of town and she's leaving with with
Tom Savini if she's like she even admits
like he's not we're not going to last
but he's my way out like yeah my excuse
to get out of here you'll forget about
me
- I won't why do you think I forget
how's your going away people always go
away so they can forget where they were
the third act as such is really pretty
short yeah because it's very abrupt like
a lot of the major I don't want to give
too much away because I want people to
see this yeah but all the major events
happen like one right after the other
yeah and it's just over first like the
first is obviously introduction is
getting settled the second act is really
about him starting to lose control yeah
and he really he starts to get a little
sloppier in a little sloppier as the
time goes on then he seems to be
distracted with his potential budding
relationship yeah that may or may not be
a thing because everything is pretty
ambiguous in Martin's life but the way
it's shot I was in rewatching it I was
thinking because there's a lot of shots
of Martin just sort of like walking
around town yeah we get some like
straight out of him it's a slightly
wide-angle shot and like I was thinking
like so much of the movie looks like
like a 90s indie rock music video to me
yeah yes it's just bizarre like and like
the way he's dressed and he looks like
someone straight out of the 90s yeah
is so weird yeah but also like that sort
of grainy aesthetic which was just
because it was a little bunch of movie
prime you look at like music videos from
the 90s and people were intentionally
doing and yeah but that day actually
just seemed to contribute to that
immediacy as well where he's like he's
down by the train tracks and the cameras
not locked down as a lot of handheld
stuff yeah and that's just kind of just
oh look at that thing look at that thing
we could Martin yeah so if that helps
keep the pace up when he's just
wandering around not doing anything it
really just gives you a great sense of
where they are yeah and it's not it's
it's it's a depressed area and it's old
yeah and so it fits in with with Martin
and the mood is that great too with the
music
I don't think we even mentioned Goblin
when we talked about Donna does oh let
me overlook that Wow absolutely
but this movie in particular like I love
the score and has a very sort of like
like like gothic kind of romantic sound
to it with lots of ice
yeah with a wonderful and that's such a
like nice juxtaposition between the you
know the really then contemporary kind
of shops of Pittsburgh yeah yeah
although there is a cut the the Italian
cut has a goblin soundtrack apparently
oh really am I know I was unaware yeah
which is all like repurposed stud like
didn't read anything new for and it's
like repurpose stuff from an other
records are there's and Suspiria
apparently not weird so you get some of
the same music using that which is weird
I can't imagine this movie without this
score it's really it's just like
haunting and beautiful and perfect that
really fits it well yeah and it just
creates such a sense such a mood and
such a like a gloomy kind of Gothic
atmosphere in a movie that otherwise
isn't particularly gothic except for
some of the black and white kind of
flashback stuff well there's that and
then the scene that Martin mocks up in
the playground oh yeah which is great
just him completely
mocking good for his belief
aaaghh everywhere the complete vampire
get up and just use faceless thing the
white he's got the teeth in it's just it
cost you one of my favorite things about
the movie is that it remains ambiguous
throughout the whole thing and there's
never a tip either way because it
doesn't it's like I was saying earlier
it doesn't matter really yeah you can
put whatever you want into it it matters
that Kudo believed to the vampire and
Martin believes through the vampire and
that's it you know although that's an
interesting dynamic too because they
both believe but at the same time
Martin's trying to he has more of a like
a grounded view of it yeah
and kuda kuda kind of has this old timey
view of newell no spur out to and is you
know has the garlic hanging on the door
and all that yeah and so martin like
clearly you know he has a bloodlust you
might not be a vampire in the
traditional sense but but yeah he's just
constantly trying to convince kuda this
is all bullshit yeah he said he's the
modern version yeah he doesn't really
explain how they became vampires right
it's just like a family curse it's just
yeah they say it's a curse it's been
passed down from generation to
generation
this means that like these ancestors of
these people they've always been fucked
yeah I mean this is just keep skinny and
that's what I think it's so kind of
tragic about Martin is like if you view
it from the idea that he's just you know
a normal person that maybe has some some
sort of mental illness and that runs
through his family and he just had this
beaten into his head his whole life yeah
yeah yeah and it's just you know it's
the question have they been just
confusing this mental illness with
vampires and exactly yeah it's entirely
possible but that's kind of a funny
thing too that des flips on this head
with the vampire tropes it's always the
vampires always have the bevies of young
women and the woman that Martin ends up
with is you know at least looks wise
physically uh you know a good 15 20
years older than him typical suburban
lonely house why yeah it reminds me
we've got to talk about the other main
character in this movie which is
horribly ugly 70s decor
that really stood out and watching at
this time just like everything is so
ugly and it's 100% authentic because
they just shout out houses they shot in
like it's the sound guys grandma's house
okay yeah it's just like it's his it's
his grandma's house the books of old
family pictures are his grandma's family
it's just like this is just what's there
there's no later than there was nothing
to mock up this is the way it is and the
the the home invasion sequence like when
he oh the door to the bedroom and it's
like wallpaper over or something like
what is this a secret door that word I
think it really helps to kind of drive
that home to her like that supposed to
be the fancy house yeah but Cudas houses
you know is definitely lived in and like
and has been that way for many years
like just as you know that it helps to
kind of drive drive that setting home a
little better I think yeah just almost
unintentionally yeah I think aside from
probably Night of the Living Dead this
movies is the most sort of atmosphere to
it of any of Romero's movies like all
these early it's it's such a weird
contrast that I love between the vampire
can a classic vampire kind of gothic
feel just set in these sort of rundown
old Pittsburgh houses yeah well it's
when you take when you take all of the
power out of the vampire story you get
just the vampires are the ultimate
outcasts and that's how Martin is he's
just he's outside of everything he's
outside of his own family he's he can't
fit in and that's a sad situation like
it's he wants to connect yeah it's in
the the filmography of George Romero so
many of his movies almost all of his
movies are built more around the concept
than they are do you really have like
memorable characters oh yes they're not
I would I would never call them like
like a character study aside from this
one yes this would be only one it's
unique and it's so modern but at the
same time it has a lot of the same sort
of themes and attitude of the other
stuff especially the just general
skepticism at the world yeah yeah and so
I I love it it's really a beautiful
tragedy and pretty unique in that I
can't think of another movie that's
really like it in
filmography Mayan horror movie in
general it's not a lot like like this
tone it almost feels like a like a
Richard if Richard Linklater made a
horror film or something like the really
laid-back attitude and sort of the the
realness of it all yeah yeah for sure
actually that's one of the things like
leader hasn't done yet yeah never done
arm about everything else although I did
recently for the first time see before
midnight
whatever the third one is most recent
one that's kind of like a horror movie
well that's essentially marriage is
fucking terrible yeah
oh and I will say that about Martin is
that it's it's kinda just an overall
sort of just tragic depressing feeling
and it so you have to kind of be in a
mindset to you know
well Romero goes back and forth I mean
my night living dad kind of falls into
that category to donative yeah that is
of course the goofy one that's their
Oracle there's it yeah I mean there's a
sadness underlying it but it's such a
fun movie too I mean you get zombies
getting pies in the face right
but then continuing that streak of I
keep saying skepticism that's what I
think of when I think of George Romero a
bit more cynicism well it becomes
cynicism and that's the interesting
thing like Martin is sort of I would
call sceptical and then you get to like
Day of the Dead which is just sort of
about giving up on any sort of like
belief and authority by the time you get
the land of the dead like that movie is
it literally ends with them saying you
know what let the zombies just have it
and so there's this kind of escalation
throughout Romero's entire career well
and it's and it's it's kind of a scene
what like because again like you're
right and not not calling you like
character studies but um even though
they're not particularly character
studies there's always really good
writing and dialogue sure and it kind of
it occurred to me it's kind of the same
thing at the at towards the end of
Martin where Christine is leaving and
she's like you know I'll call I'll find
money I'll keep in touch I won't forget
you was like you can go forget me yeah
that one got me oh yeah yeah like that's
that's kind of the same the abandoning
thing is is throughout a lot of those
movies so just think of the George
Romero overall and just as you know what
he did for film is incredible I think a
lot of people don't quite realize like
how much of an impact he had I mean it's
it's unfortunate later in his career
like he had so much trouble getting
movies made when everybody else was just
ripping off him yeah it took it took a
remake of one of his movies to get him
in a position where he could make
another movie like that's fucked up
yeah well I mean part of it is
you know surely they didn't he didn't
want to make that movies anymore I
didn't want to remake the same movie
over and over again right so he wanted
two different two different you know he
wanted to tell different stories but
that's that's kind of like uh you know
he sort of flirted with doing the
Hollywood thing we never really worked
out just because I think that's is the
way his brain was wired yes he was he
was an independent artist yes sir and
that's why one of the reasons that he
was for me I mean when I think of like
filmmakers that have had a real impact
on me there there's you know top three
or four and he's certainly up there yeah
and people don't realize the you know
the the impact they had just on non
horror film in general as well just
because they're just like techniques of
filmmaking casting I mean doing it
independently yeah and that's kind of I
always I like regional filmmaking like
when you watch a movie and you can tell
that there's sort of a community behind
ya make sure of it and a lot of Romero's
earlier stuff and especially in
something like Martin yeah you can
really see that yeah it's very very in
and of that town and those people yeah
this is a Pittsburgh movie yeah yeah
it's the yeah it's absolutely it he was
able to make his kind of movies you see
that crest all that horror crap
by your day no more room in Hell the
dead walk things only seem to be magic
there is no real magic they're coming to
get you Barbara
it gets up and killed the people it
kills get up and kill are they
slow-moving cheetah
yeah they're dead they're all messed up
I'm running this monkey for no frakkin
time and I want to know what the fuck
you're doing with my time
I mean it's real hard to live for
something that you believe
