Nov 25, 2017
Nothing but Trouble
youtube.com/watch?v=Lz_NLJXcMiE
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/934555758812856321
redlettermedia.com/nothing-but-trouble-review

okay so rich I want you to imagine
something for me
you are a Hollywood executive okay and
famous actor writer comedian dan Aykroyd
comes into your office it's like 1989
1990 and he says have I got the script
for you to produce and you know you
think to yourself this is he he wrote
spies like us
the blues brothers.the the Ghostbusters
one and two so as a Hollywood executive
what do you do well if I were a
Hollywood executive you know I would
have enough sense to be familiar with
dan Aykroyd and I would say you have to
work with John Landis that's a correct
answer apparently what they decided to
do is give him absolute carte blanche
and say make whatever movie you want to
make and so he made nothing but trouble
and it is also called nothing but
trouble Hey
what's what's donor office let's let's
just talk about Ted Aykroyd yeah
everybody knows about Dan Aykroyd but I
like talking about Dan Aykroyd sure when
a cried is a fun and interesting person
he is completely insane there we go yes
I agree I can now agree with you I don't
think we will ever have a formal
relationship a formal contact with any
alien species out there especially after
9/11 he was insane in the most fun ways
you know UFOs and and and ghosts he's a
big he's big paranormal believer and
also somewhat famously his like his
ideas for like scripts and whatnot are
creative and yet batshit crazy you
always hear about people who work with
Dan Aykroyd talking about shit they had
to cut out but Aykroyd wrote the
screenplay but it was huge it was huge
and he delivered it in the San Fernando
Valley yellow pages and it was this epic
insane saga of each and every member of
the band had their own movie and I said
Dan you know this studio sort of was
horrified I said Danny but this is too
unwieldly you know we have to make it
into a narrative so Danny said you do it
and they're full of just completely
unfilmable ideas and then and then saner
people have to slake sift through it and
they find those 60 pages and they'd turn
that to something cohesive and sensible
right nothing but trouble did not have
that voice of reason
oh I didn't know originally the dan
aykroyd directed nothing but trouble and
and when I heard that he directed it the
film suddenly started to make a lot more
sense to me based off of a story by his
brother yeah he wrote the screenplay and
directed and stars in multiple roles not
good no good John Candy is in this Chevy
Chase Demi Moore fresh off of ghost
stars in this movie yes but yet you
didn't have that experience directors
voice though mm mm somebody who's wildly
creative dan Aykroyd and I gotta say
this that comes through Oh his
creativity is all over this fucking
movie of nothing but trouble is kind of
infamous it's an infamous terrible movie
rewatching it it's it's it's not
terrible it's not terrible it's weird as
fuck okay it it has value just by virtue
of being weird as fuck and interesting
now it doesn't necessarily work as a
whole it's terrible but there are so
many little elements and and and this
world building in this movie that I love
this crazy mansion that the the justice
of the peace lives in it has more
thought put into it than all of rogue
one
the nursery the story is Chevy Chase
plays some kind of like extremely
wealthy financial adviser or guy he
lives in in the penthouse yep and then
Demi Moore moves into the penthouse with
him and she's also super rich super
successful and super hot that's true
let's just say I have a personal
interest in this particular deal so if
you're not going can I borrow your car
I'm a good driver
the the kick-off to the entire plot of
the movie is Demi Moore wanting to
borrow the car of a man she just met in
an elevator when she's super rich and
successful and why the fuck doesn't she
have a car it's insane rich Evans that's
the entire kick off of the movies hey
can I borrow your car no I'll Drive okay
that's how they end up on their wacky
adventure yeah doesn't make any sense
that she wouldn't have a car I can look
at that you can think it over I didn't
gloss over that I don't know if that's
what starts the Domino's falling okay
and then they're there they're Brazilian
the wacky goofy colorful friends right
along they're not coming with us are
they so they they they start going to
Atlantic City and they end up they take
a Vulcan vania is the town they go
through that's that name came straight
out of Dan Aykroyd's brain and as a name
for a town a fictional town where weird
things are gonna happen is it perfect
this was this weird-ass fucking name for
a town in volcan Vania they go through
the tongue yeah then you get your first
Wordle building element this town looks
like something bad has happened to the
town because just like in the middle of
the street there are these just pillars
there are these pillars coming out of
the middle of street with just smoke
billowing out of them you know and and
like super downtrodden town folks just
drinking bottles of booze in the middle
of the street and everyone's given the
rich people a funny look and Chevy Chase
ends up running
stop sign a goofy stop sign though
they're gonna be pulled over by a police
officer and for no real apparent reason
he tries to outrun the police officer
I love forget the gadgetry in this movie
it establishes the the beginning of like
the gadgetry and the fact that we are
not dealing with ordinary folk I
understand the purpose for the movie I'm
saying character character story was not
there's no reason that he would run from
the cops not and even actually him
running from the cops ends up having no
consequence because the cop never tells
the judge about him running from the
it's so dumb there's so there are so
many things wrong with this beautiful
movie
so then we start our descent into what
can only be described as pure madness
look at all these toasters and we meet
Dan Akroyd as the wily old Justice of
the Peace this court here with binds you
over for a further appearance to be held
at 4 o'clock tomorrow afternoon we show
Dean for the public and common good that
you'll be confined here in chauffer now
this is the most important aspect of
that character yeah his nose is a penis
like his nose is flat out of penis
there's no way there's no way around it
and like it's more obvious in some
scenes than in others
I think at some point they looked at the
dailies and somebody's like his nose is
a penis that's you know what that's a
little bit too on the nose oh and you
know what I'm gonna say the exact
opposite happened they kept looking at
the dais and you know his nose kind of
looks like a penis let's just make it a
penis so you think that those got more
penis like as them as they made the
movie I think that was the joke 100%
how amazing is this mansion that the
movie takes place in this there's all
this just crap all of like books piles
of shit it's like obviously it was a
nice mansion at some point and now it
has since the 1800s when this was built
it has turned into a crazy funhouse
mechanic University in great field Ohio
my engineering degree because the judge
has a degree in engineering which is
established pretty early on and his
family is full of mechanics yeah and so
this how this how this movie was written
to be a wacky childhood adventure movie
but it's starring grown-up assholes
it has a penis nose and has a penis nose
you can take it two ways with a little
bit of tweaking yeah this is a horror
movie ordinary man gets pulled over by
the police taking a jail for what should
be just a regular old travel this is
this is starting off a little bit
strange well I'll talk to the judge will
get this straight now and then it just
becomes obvious that the government of
this town like the judge and everyone
working for them is insane that's a
horror movie premise and see I like I
like this as a group of kids you know
needs needs to like go on because
because like the his whole property like
we're only talking about the mansion
there's so much to this movie this
mansion is in the center of a giant
junkyard filled with that is built on
top of a coal mine that has only a cold
mind because somebody swindled the
judge's family there's so much in the
nineteen 1900s but but that's why I go
childhood adventure like playing in a
junkyard like exploring a scrap yard
exploring an old mansion with slides and
trapdoors this is a Goonies movie
this is the kids neat like he stole the
kids dog or something and they need to
rescue it and so they go through these
this wacky house of horrors and he's
still the same judge he still takes
office knows all of the weird horror
shit happens but in from the viewpoint
of a child so so you could go Goonies
yeah or you could go Texas Chainsaw
Massacre but we're kind of somewhere in
the middle yeah hopefully that sells
everybody I'm watching this movie
because that's exactly what it is like
the bone stripper he pulls a lever and
there's a trapdoor and then these people
have been pulled over for drunk driving
they get sent to the bone stripper
and that's why I go Goonies cuz it's so
cartoony like sure that they pull in
these gangsters but and they have
literally a sack of cocaine but in the
Goonies
there isn't a comical machine that
strips the flesh off of your bones and
then throws the bones out the back of
them giant I fuckin boney but it is kind
of Goonies cuz it's a roller coaster
that dumps them to the thing that strips
their bones from their flesh and you
know on the other side of that our
heroes of the movie they don't get their
bones stripped out of their body they
get they they're on top of a trapdoor
and they fall into a giant pile of
rubber duckies this there is so many
fantastic things in this movie if you
start to really think about it I loved
the dinner table jump over the dinner
table
these compartment slides out this little
mottled condiment train comes up and
starts going around and they put like
disgusting ketchup and mustard on these
just disgusting hotdogs it's like a body
horror when he's eating that hotdog the
judges chair descends from the ceiling
with straps and hooks incredibly well
thought-out mansion but then that they
forgot to get the story structure right
because for no particular reason the
colorful Brazilian friends decide that
the hotdog train has finally taken it
too far for them
you know what the weirdest thing about
that is though what they successfully
run away nothing happens to them after
that you know they don't like run into
the next comical contraption that kills
them in some fantastic way they just
leave yeah and then John Candy one of
his two characters just leaves the movie
with them it looks like you need a nice
couple of weeks holiday you peel the
correct banana there that's what I'm
saying like story structure characters
the worst garbage shit Danette right huh
dan Aykroyd not raping creative right
but not really knowing what he's doing
he has no sense of structure or pacing
or or basic script writing he is an idea
man you know you don't even get a
likeable protagonist no I think I think
what about one of the downfalls of this
movie is Chevy Chase Chevy Chase is
awful like Demi Moore I know she got
nominated for a Razzie but for what
she's given to work with Denny Moore
does a good job because bubbles on top
she's doing she's doing her best she's
having fun with it and then Chevy Chase
is on screen and you just you just want
to fucking kick him in the nuts
many cases here I do often choose to
invade the maximum levy frequently
undesirables are put to death well sure
I can understand that judge come on
death for running a stop sign and for
being a banker that's the double death
dan Aykroyd is I like the judge Carrick
is being appropriately hammy uh-huh John
Candy unfortunately is kind of phoning
it in I think he knew he's trying to
play straight man he's surprisingly
surprisingly good at it before John
Candy as the straight-laced cop
character I suppose the tough cop
by-the-book yeah traffic violation
contravention to village bylaw 23
failing in the ex
shushing of a full-stop of the place so
marked I recommend fine bond and release
what else you want to do for him bake
him a pie oh I guess not something you
would expect to see John Candy doing
necessarily but then he also John Candy
plays multiple roles as well and he also
plays his twin mute sister just it just
terrible just it's all terrible they
start this subplot of the marriage of
girl John Candy and Chevy Chase and at
the same time Demi Moore is out in the
junkyard with giant overweight Cupid
doll hair diaper babies hi hi we're not
allowed in the house also one of them us
also played by Dan Aykroyd but these
giant babies that might have mental
handicaps but are also grotesque
monsters but are also blacksmiths but I
also know how to play cards and are in
love with to me more because who's not
but it is
thinking about Dan a coralina like
having this idea like oh we'll have
these weird mongoloid diaper babies and
having no one to say no why nobody to
say why why dan Aykroyd why do you want
big diaper babies yeah it's like oh cuz
that's a neat idea sure it's Annie today
about Dan you need structure you need to
read anything payoff reasons for things
to happen what I want the diaper babies
my babies play poker words anymore Nick
Cage then they're gonna build a
watermelon slicing machine and then the
Digital Underground shows up fuckin
Tupac is in the shitty show up
it's like that accurate said isn't that
you know what let's have some rap people
show up it'll just have a musical number
Tupac Shakur's cinematic debut is
nothing but trouble alright Peter Buck
alright Pete nope no filter on that Dan
Akroyd none then the judge he starts
groovin with them and then Morgan and
and then they they they perform the
wedding music yep that's what they'll do
they'll perform the way their own kind
of specialist so then here's here's like
here's like the climatic and their
ordeal yeah
Chevy Chase just shoves a barrel down
there that explodes then they run away
he blows up a bunch of gasoline tanks to
save Demi Moore from a giant watermelon
slicing machine run by girl John Candy
being tuned up by the giant ugly diaper
babies yes you know this
and then they come back with cops and
then it turns out all of the cops are
evil and in on it like all of like all
I'm like all of the cops like everywhere
hundred there's a hundred cops is 100
different cops who are in on this with
the judge after they come back like a
week later and then we had second ending
the whole place blows up because that
mind that has been in everyone's
background the whole time decides to
erupt and then they run away again
and then Chevy Chase runs through a wall
like a Looney tune character there's
nothing left for us here now so we're
all planning to move in with my grandson
and long he lives in New York so come on
what see you soon banker
it doesn't it doesn't end so much is it
like rambles and drifts off just like
Dan is right Dan Aykroyd's every night
drinking his skull vodka out of the
aliens of always visiting and that's
that's nothing but trouble this is a
must-see for everyone yeah it's not it's
not a good movie no but it is an
entertaining movie it's it's not good
and it's not so bad it's good it is one
of the we're it's an anomaly it is not
well constructed but there are things in
this movie that are just fantastically
creative no one in the junkyard
even with the diaper babies this this
family lineage where were John Candy
John Candy Girl and the diaper babies
are all his grandchildren nothing like
this family lineage their history it's a
fantastic world and unfortunately the
story just is really shitty shit elite
old Chevy Chase I put a lot of the blame
on Chevy Chase to pussies he is just
unlikable oh he's a wet secondary oh
yeah yeah you want to see him die it's a
bad sign when you want your protagonist
to get caught in the death fishing
and Dan Akroyd never directed a film
again No
