Nov 18, 2018
Star Trek: The Motion Picture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WUxZmen6G2U
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/1064316232436994048
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/10156031053127634
https://www.redlettermedia.com/review/star-trek-the-motion-picture-review

courtesy of schmaltz hmm Brewing Company
in Clifton Park New York its Star Trek
The Next Generation beer captain's
holiday which I still don't know if any
of this is real
schmaltz sounds like fake Brewing
Company guys kind of sounds like Schlitz
but
captain had a good holiday that Vash
really worked her magic that was a deep
cut whereas Picard calls her she's into
artifacts that's why she loves but you
didn't get that joke well there's
there's many things to talk about in
Star Trek The Next Generation mm-hmm but
today we're here to talk about Star Trek
the motion picture from 1979 mm-hmm
per your request Jim yeah and and I see
I see you more as a Star Wars guy true
yes of a Star Trek guy what what made
you want to discuss Star Trek the motion
picture I mean yeah I've always liked
Star Wars in the original trilogy and
just the current climate with all these
crazy space Wars
I wanted to watch it again I watched it
again I just got this warm nice
nostalgic feeling where I didn't have to
worry about anything and I just enjoyed
a movie again I like the movie I don't
know how you feel about it I rewatched
it again and I loved it even more right
after re-watching it yet again the
movies kind of the ugly duckling of of
the Star Trek movie family as opposed to
Star Trek 5 which is kind of like the
drug prostituting son three-breasted
Catwoman of the family the the first
motion picture which got off to a rocky
start
mhm stumbled out of the gate would be a
good analogy
sure so Star Trek of course ended in
1969 rings cancelled it gained
popularity in syndication and then 1975
was when they started to say let's make
a movie okay is this before phase 2 this
is before phase 2 then star wars
happened ah and then they're like wait
maybe we should do a TV show right then
they start the TV show and then
interestingly enough because I thought
1979 right the Star Trek the motion
picture is so dull and slow and and it
feels almost like 2001 a Space Odyssey
like I'm like how is this made after
star wars sure how was a movie made in
1979 not about space battles yeah yeah
and it's like their basis for going back
to the movie was the success of Close
Encounters of the Third Kind okay was
like oh a boring movie can be successful
in the theaters sure so they took all
their work on phase 2 which included
Ilia Dekker all those characters and
they kind of and they took the pilot
script so it's like back and forth back
and forth and then confusion and then I
guess we're gonna make a movie yeah so
let's get the guy who directed West
the story to do well I was gonna say you
know Robert wises obvious choice
Andromeda Strain
The Day the Earth Stood Still he's made
sci-fi and sci-fi thriller like the
sound of me you sending me zombie music
is in West Side Story Miller yeah let's
see if I can make it easier and then
dramatist rain he had the credentials of
making the most boringest sci-fi movie
ever made right there we gotta get we're
gonna get that guy what do you love
about Star Trek the motion picture I
watched it again just last night and the
thing that stood out the most is I used
to watch Star Trek when I was a kid I
liked it I've always liked Star Trek and
the Kirk bonds Spock mmm-hmm original
series yeah the original series and the
three of them together in their
relationship but in this movies it's
really different and so you know and
even for the die-hard fans back then
they're together and there's that one
scene in the meeting room where Kirk's
wearing a space dentist outfit with his
gorilla arms I was gonna talk about
Kirk's arm hair but the costumes and
well we can talk about sensing is a big
topic you're asking me what I really
liked about it it's that their
relationship is strained and it's so
good
because it's it's an arc it's the start
of an arc that leads to the end of the
movie where everything feels like Star
Trek again and their relationship feels
the same again but it's strained because
Spock has been away for so long they
don't know you know how to make heads or
tails out of them they they don't know
what's going on with him bones doesn't
really want to be back Kirk isn't even
welcome himself on the enterprise true
exactly but but he's also try again he's
playing mediator and he's like you know
this is us for it and it works so well
well that's the theme of the film is is
searching and searching for where you
belong right and that's because every
character is that way I mean except for
bones to a certain extent but really
it's Kirk and Dekker and Spock Spock
definitely and
ah feature not so much checkoff not so
much check out but I'm feature
absolutely in feature and and Spock are
the there now I guess yes yes they're
there they're the driving force really
behind the story and well actually it's
the the love story between Decker and I
Leah that's really the the heart of the
story
but which I mean there's been romance
and Star Trek in the past but this is a
bit different it's it's different
because it doesn't involve a main
character right it's sort of like the
backbone of the story I'm sorry did you
lift Delta 4 or that you didn't even say
goodbye
the film uses sexuality sure to a lot of
outsiders it's the dullest film mm-hmm
and the slowest right and the most
clinical looking film because the
scenery I love the 70s era costumes they
existed for one film okay they're
they're very 1970s especially when bones
shows up and he has like yes yes wait
lounge suit yes his fake beard chest
hair is coming out he's got gold chains
I'm on 70s retirement on vacation after
this date I'm at a disco ship he's not
happy but then and then immediately and
starting from Star Trek to on they're
wearing the the big stuffy British
Imperial escape yeah alright and you
don't like that no okay but there's an
actor to I'm not myself but as them as
actors and Kirk's wearing like his
sleeves are cut off here yes got his
gorilla hair arms I said any space
dentist shirt
it's basically they look so fucking comfortable
and then to comes around the
world four layers of of wool that goes
all the way to Star Trek six I felt so
bad for all those elderly to go find a
pot of black coffee
okay when Kirk first comes aboard the
enterprise or wouldn't when he first
comes to San Francisco I guess he's
wearing what looks like a dramatically
different yeah doesn't star trek into
darkness that's true
but he's wearing what looks like a
cruise ships captain's outfit but that's
relatable and that's good that's good
costume designer yeah I mean it
referencing Star Wars very simple very
basic but there's there's a practicality
about it so engineering in Star Trek
there seems to be like a shield or
something going on I like that that's
all very practical and in you know
deckers in his space pajamas and then
you have Ilia once Ilia becomes robot
Ilia and she's wearing a karate suit
with no pants you will know that my
favorite scene in the film as a preamble
here is the the probe scene yeah it's a
great way that like that
beam of plasmas going around the bridge
and I don't know how they shot it and I
want to talk about photography you know
I have an idea how they shot it um where
it's it's some kind of bizarre fast
motion it's like they shot it in slow
motion and sped it up or vice versa
there's something weird about the the
motion so the probe is moving around the
bridge Decker says don't interfere with
it and two seconds later he interferes
with it yeah and then and then it
chooses Ilia for some reason and kind of
like vaporizes her the the device she's
holding drops to the floor and it kind
of cuts back to real time or reality and
it's it's a totally different feel and
that that sequence I just love that
sequence I love the sound effect
kind of like horrifying and frightening
yeah as as was the entirety of the
original series which I was maintained
was was a horror TV show sure
there is something disturbing about the
way that it's shot and it's almost like
when David Lynch will shoot something
and something horrific and he loves the
sound effects of like cables fusing and
electricity and and and lighting and I
think what's going on in the scene is
they have a strobe as well as the
practical cylinder tube that they've
brought in for the scene okay but
there's a strobing effect going on as
well which is messing with the framerate
and I almost feel like they're chopping
out frames and that's what's so good
about the visual effects in this film is
it's such a marriage between practical
and post-production and visual effects
and animation hello Aliyah decker is in
love with her mm-hmm they had a prior
relationship although it did not on
Delton and yes she's dealt in which is I
guess a race that just exudes sexuality
and they're better at it than anyone
yeah and I and I Leah's is played by
Indian model Persis Khambatta and so the
first thing she says when she comes on
the enterprise randomly is my oath of
celibacy is on record captain may I ask
you my duties balance because it will
she can read people's minds so because
the COS check up and Sue and Sulu yeah
they're like oh yeah you know and then
she's like my vow celibacy is on file
and I'm always feeling like Kirk Kirk's
just kind of like he's kind of there
already to the point that he wouldn't be
broadcasting that to her and I almost
wish he said why are you so
condescending essentially I Leah's
killed and replaced with her with a
robot and it ends up in sickbay
bones is scanning her and he's like it's
microprocessor is down to the cellular
level
she's a mechanism mechanism and then
Decker comes in yeah and he's like Illya
the Ilia theme plays automatic Mike
right here and even the smallest body
functions are exactly duplicate she says
every every endocrine system is
recreated even down to I moisturize
every exocrine system is the same to
leave an eye moisturizer the line that
this woman is machiya and it's so subtle
but you know Decker's thinking mm-hmm
the woman says the line that she is a
perfect recreation of the female yeah
right if it came from bronze if you like
a Miss lips yeah yeah well she's got it
just in all the right spots there's a
Decker exec or would just I just love
the read words on it yeah two unmanned
spacecraft Voyager 1 and 2 lifted off
from Cape Canaveral atop Titan Sentara
rockets the United States launched the
Voyager probe series right in 1979
yeah which this is a fictional probe
called Voyager 6 right there's only
Voyager 1 and 2 voyeur relatives at some
point Voyager 6 went into a black hole
and then what we used to call a black
hole what we used to call black hole
Voyager 6 disappeared what they used to
call a black hole and and made its way
to an alien planet of machines right and
and they wanted to fulfill voyagers
original programming which was to talk
to the Creator
right which is humans to relay back yeah
it's it's kind of similar to the Whale
plot where they want to come back and
talk to the whales so it's part of
living machine but one of my favorite
things in the movie is the analogy
between Viger and Spock
and how that plays out
but it's not information it's in a like
it's a it's like an emotional connection
yes with it and that's why he has to
leave the culinary yes and the kolinar
is the final ceremony and becoming a
vote not becoming a Vulcan but the
Vulcan rite of passage of I am
completely denying all emotion right and
he's so close yes he's so close to the
fact where she's about to put the
necklace on him that says you've passed
a call on our test and he says no wait
and then there's something I gotta do
first yeah there's something that needs
my help out in space I need to fix this
map painting Kirk looks great you know
he shows up in the subways shuttle
spaceship yeah he heard about the fact
that a giant space cloud of destructive
power is heading towards Earth in a
couple days so he's like I'm gonna I'm
gonna command the enterprise and go
investigate this thing for some reason
the enterprise is the only ship able to
reach it right and so he convinces
Admiral nagura mm-hmm that he should he
should take over the command chair from
Decker you're what I'm replacing you as
captain of the enterprise
because Decker's is relatively
incompetent he's very emotionally like
charged for in his decisions yes except
except with relation to his knowledge of
the enterprise right which you know yeah
out knowledge is Kirk that is a dramatic
element in the film right Kirk son
familiarity with the new retrofitted
Enterprise and add great art for Kirk's
character you know Deckard don't don't
what does he say
don't stop competing with me Decker stop
competing stop competing with me and
bone says no Jim it's you that's
competing right which is great and Kirk
realizes that and as things go he starts
trying to be like a little bit nicer
like that whole what's that pointing see
and he's like Decker
yes I stand corrected
deckers big moment is when the
enterprise warp engine imbalance sends
them into a wormhole it's my least
favorite part of the movie
visually it's good but they didn't just
smear the colors they smeared them and
they went behind the actors mr. gendell
damn by our phasers I don't know how
they do that it's visually great but the
point was belay that order
Kirk orders phasers on the asteroid but
Decker knows that the phasers are routed
through the engine which would cause the
ship to blow up so you just hold on
torpedoes away
then that and interestingly enough
that's the only time the enterprise
fires a weapon in the whole film
which is a side note I'm talking about
after star wars everybody
yeah well it's it's no space lasers in
this film which is you know to the
movies credit it's not a big laser blast
explosion action movie no and that's
great thoughtful yes
cerebral I'm not saying that's a
detriment I'm saying it's surprising
given the climate of science fiction
yeah it's it's balanced out of the
explosions and action sequences that it
doesn't have are balanced out by the
fact that it uses so much sexuality
we're out of it William Shatner Hammond
he was one of the sexiest really no
major orifice spice well say like yeah I
mean I mean features embodied she's
prefer matically somatically sexual but
not the sexiest movie one of the sexiest
movies ever made features personified by
by Indian model Persis Khambatta
Wright who has taken a vow of celibacy
that's true and and he's walking around
with no pants right and a silk karate
shirt and v juror is essentially a
pulsating at this right that wants to be
penetrated and she's a probe and there
is lots of this is not made up like this
is no it's all there whoever wrote this
movie well as this was a giant perv this
story is by Alan Dean Foster okay who
who was the ghostwriter for the Star
Wars novelization he also wrote the
great novel splinter of the mind's eye
which was the sequel to Star Wars that
never got made is this all that I am is
there nothing more because it's a movie
about life creation right
let's talk about how fat William Shatner
is I came from like Kirk notes but all
well we can talk about tours but I'd
like to
don't use this gorilla or I'm here to
create a new toupee all right kill that
Coco I need a new toupee I don't know if
William Shatner is a great actor or not
I didn't watch much TJ Hooker I saw Star
Trek the old series the original series
and the movies and everything I've seen
through the movies
some good some bad but in this movie
he's fantastic
he is completely invested in the
character of Kirk or and you can't you
it's almost like he couldn't separate
the two of them it's really good acting
for someone like William Shatner who
seems over-the-top and that that's one
of the two myths about Kirk and Shatner
same thing is that Shatner is a terrible
actor you know and that and that Kirk
was the sexual Playboy hello ladies
right then if you re watch the entirety
of the original series Kirk
Shatner he's great I took the proper
steps in the proper order I did exactly
what had to be done exactly when it
should have been done it's like he knows
when to be sober and went to be focused
and when to play it up and be sort of
playful with things but on top of
playing a character he's also as a
leader he's he's also acting on top of
acting yes as a captain you have to you
have to the movies on his shoulders
it's deleted there's like there's a
wonderful moment in Star Trek The Next
Generation when Captain Picard and
Beverly Crusher are connected in the
brain and and their honor trapped on a
planet and she's like which way do we go
this way you don't really know what I
mean you're acting like you know exactly
which way to go but you're only guessing
do you do this all the time and they
start walking and she's like you have no
idea where we're going right he's like
of course I don't
he's like death but that's that's how I
project right confidence I have to
pretend yeah that I know exactly what
I'm doing even if I don't because I'm a
captain
no but there are times when it is
necessary for a captain to give the
appearance of confidence
sure so there's sure yeah layer layers
and Shatner knows how to do that yeah he
doesn't get enough credit again
reiterating like Shatner is Kirk Kirk is
Shatner and they're entwined and it's
like you look at the JJ Abrams reboot
and I'm sorry like Chris Christopher
Pyne is that his name oh yeah on a
motorcycle that could be any like
blond-haired guy from California in that
role and this ain't you know the same
goes for someone trying to play like a
famous Harrison Ford role you know and
saying I'm a driver I'm a fly
I'm a driver and I'm a flyer the waited
a long time for a shot like this
this seemed creeping me out when I was
little Spock shows up and he's like a
complete asshole to everybody because he
just done the kolinar yeah and failed
and failed but they're like mr. Spock
you know everyone's like hey Spock
welcome did you hear that that he
apparently he was doing method acting on
set oh and he was completely like
shutting himself off socially from the
other cast members and I think that was
for maybe the first half of the movie
because then he lightens up after up up
until he does the mind meld yeah and I
was imagine like the again with the
costumes his costume when he arrives
this terrible it's like this black weird
cloak well okay yeah a weird like Vulcan
question mark the top and I imagine like
you know check us like a little boy he's
like mr. Spock you're a vampire
precisely I do really like her who is
lying it's how we feel mr. Spock and he
immediately ignores her and yes yeah
it's how we all feel mr. Spock captain
with your permission I will now discuss
these fuel equations with the engineer
and it's great it's it's it's great it
but it's also wonderfully awkward but
they didn't give the audience what they
wanted which is a beautiful reunion of
everybody the until the very end which
is fine that no that's what I'm that's
what I'm saying is great is because
there's that would that realism to it
you know it's yeah just like Star Trek's
bag everybody you know it's but I take
your point they're not giving the
audience what they want I think the
audience would have been happier if they
got that gratification earlier on my
favourite scene and this is just after
Spock's arrived with all the weirdness
and he's really cold to everyone in
Kirk's pleading with them like you know
I want you to come out and show me who
you used to be and everything it's just
such a powerful scene yeah in the form
of please sit down and that he's just
asking him to sit down but what he's
actually saying is please talk to me and
where are you Spock and and the look on
even Leonard Nimoy's face looks really
sad it's almost like a I can't be part
of this anymore
but they you know I gotta say like Kirk
looks fine bones looks okay but they
didn't do very a very nice job with
Leonard Nimoy's makeup he it's
inconsistent well when he shows up it's
just like come on like you know
everyone's aged a bit but you could have
done you know you know his um or this is
weird but his his teeth are better
hmm um because he said he was a chain
smoker I think I think in between the
end of the series and the motion picture
is when he got his dentures right
because it's teeth are pristine white
and in the original series he was he had
kernels of corn they were yellow report
to the bridge commander immediately in
Kirk's there's a darkness to him that I
really like that you would know better
than I would but in the preview in the
old series original series I don't
remember them being that way that's sort
of controlling I need to get what I want
right and it's it's darker than I don't
know somehow it seems darker than ya
know than it has been in the past
jerry goldsmith does the music i think
it's i think it's really good the Ilia
themes great the i mean this is the
first of many firsts for star trek and
subsequent movies as well as next
generation the theme song main title
theme is used in next generation it's a
good theme it's great it's powerful
is it didn't he just die no he's not
that yet
Oh No rubber Weiss is dead well yeah he
died of marshmallow poisoning he died in
2000 and he's a he's a man made of
marshmallow wrapped in human skin
but let's talk about sets mm-hmm
spaceships production design matte
paintings yes sure the upside-down
regular want regular one station
I love the Klingon battle cruisers the
updated versions from TLS you went when
when they get to that close-up oh I know
I know
feels come out and there's this there's
burn burn marks yeah I'm not I'm not I'm
not super into vinyl records but this is
what I imagine someone who's really into
vinyl records for us so when we're
talking about you know the chaos
surrounding space films these days and
going back and seeing the Katanga class
playing on ships approaching camera I
just feel so warm and happy and just
relaxed and I can see film grain and
scratches and pops and and I can tell
it's real in and there's bad matting
issues I can see where it's cut out and
they're there in the miniature shots of
though the beauty shots of the
enterprise mhm
the there are many shots where there's
schmutz
yeah on the screen in the film gate or
yeah and yeah and it's just stuck there
yeah left it in that's it's it's a great
sequence of map paintings they're
questionable but there's something that
I really love about them you know this
isn't Star Wars this is 1979 Star Trek
the San Francisco what do you call it
the shuttlepod Bay it makes no sense
it's a matte painting it doesn't totally
work it's partially cloudy outside
partially blue sky you can see the
Golden Gate Bridge in the background
there is no light source anywhere it's
just this it looks like soup
yeah orange and barf what about what
about Viger so the original video or the
at the start the video shots are all
they're all like airbrushed patterns
on different pieces of glass so there
was some sense of parallax you know as
camera moves past and it gets a little
more complex as it goes on I think they
introduced some model work with still
with glass and some painted work and
then they eventually get to I guess when
Spock is approaching the aperture as it
puts it and suddenly were on full
fledged model yeah giant scale model
with it looks like in the background
there's like like a laser cylinder of
light like a cylinder of laser light
they're using lasers in the background
and smoke yeah just to give you know
kind of an atmosphere and it looks great
there's all those wonderful shots that
give you the sense of scale yeah when
they have the tiny enterprise that whole
interior is great yeah and then
especially after I mean there's there's
the aperture
yeah which does look like camera
aperture yeah collapses and opens the
same way
that's what Spock goes through right but
he goes in an orifice because in a no
and orifice and end encounter a thruster
ignition that acceleration rate to
coincide with the opening of the beater
orifice and he goes into the orifice he
penetrates it right and then he
discovers viga has projected image of
features home planet and he sees Ilia
and Ilia is the key to all this and Ilia
has a necklace with a sensor around her
neck it's just a circular pink object
yeah it is this sensor many mine sexes
with her he does bind sex with her but
he informs the crew that the the the
circular pink object on her neck is the
key right to everything it's the it's
the sensor it's the most important thing
in the video orifice right
now what do you suggest we do
Spanky
but then yes Spock does mind meld and he
just can't handle this No
and then that's when Spock learns that
the motion is an important part of the
discovery process of learning about
yourself in sex and sex and the universe
and who you are where you came from what
your point in the universe is and the
mystery right that's the component that
VJ is missing is is the human element
sure it has all the knowledge in the
universe of facts and robotics and
technology but it's the wonderment yeah
that's what Spock was trying to purge it
is this all there is is this all there
is
yeah there's that but also a big huge
big part of it is that companionship
Envy Jers alone yes and Spock realizes
he has Kirk he has bones and he has the
crew this simple feeling is beyond
vedras comprehension
and then at the end VG erupts and a
glorious explosion and becomes a new
being altogether speaking of the ending
with Deckard unifying with
Ilia that like practically and
visual-effects wise is one of the most
amazing shots in the film that that
sequence of them those weird shapes
leading up to where the the Voyager
probe is yeah I mean with the light
coming out of it I mean it's just such
weird unique visuals yeah
and it's grounded too I love that
feature creates the bridge going up to
up to the enterprise saucer section yes
and then they they all come up out of a
panel and walk on to it and it's I mean
it's based on natural geological shapes
yeah hexagonal except as Allah volcanic
columns or whatever and I like that
there's a grounding in reality there I
would very quickly like to mention when
they climb out of the enterprise yeah
that's a matte painting yeah of you see
the bridge the slope down and then
there's a side view which may have been
done five minutes before the actual
screening of the film that looks like a
child painted it and it was painfully
painfully obvious in blu-ray mm quality
uh it looked like a birthday cake like
if someone had an enterprise birthday
cake that's what it looked like and I'm
not faulting the film it is amazing
visual effects yeah but that particular
shot whoa
we get the reveal of who Viger is with
you know all the weird alien Vedra
noises very reminiscent yeah Close
Encounters no I
and then Kirk is the one to do it any
scrapes off letter by letter
oh hey ye are and I always felt that
could have been handled somehow better a
little more subtly the
ger
feature like he didn't really have to
even smear awful in it so it's it's a
bit like Sesame Street yeah yeah letter
by letter and and then just you know for
six G right it's like that moment when
Vedra says carbon-based life forms like
a hundred times right when they first
meet her and then they have like the
knucklehead security guard and he goes
carbon-based yeah if wasn't the guy in
the football uniform yes
carbon-based units humans and some Perez
us just talking about humans I think he
says like Ramirez or Perez yeah press
yeah and then it's like you're in the
23rd century yeah I mean and you work on
a starship yeah you know what a
carbon-based life-form is how dumb are
you
maybe that's why he's a security guard
and this one though it's like you get a
translate it to the audience I don't
know if say Kalia needed to say read
your feet you like five times
what do you NIC pick in the film now I
am Beecher Beecher features kind of like
Zardoz with a Wizard of Oz boilers
features on the screen again its major
but I guess she's like a child
kirk unit
kirk unit
kirk unit
kirk unit
James doing
can't do a Scottish accent they gave it
back to me Scottie gave us back
I go to what it's not easy with no
guloona and it just grosses me out
uh-oh I I just know we have just
finished 18 months redesigning and
refitting the enterprise such a it's an
imitation of a bad imitation anyway
James Doohan is a Canadian war hero from
Sarnia Ontario with an Irish accent he
doesn't sound Scottish at all
he sends more like the Lucky Charms icon
and he has a missing finger we're
talking about sets mm-hmm the giant set
yeah the big like crew lounge yeah later
serves as the staging area in the
beginning of the film I have a theory
about that please I feel like that might
have been Robert wises decision you this
is the first time you ever get to see
the amount of population of the
enterprise right and it's like a big
huge scene with tons of people that are
all gathered to discuss the video
situation but you see it in Robert wises
films you see it in the ballroom scene
and Sound of Music
it's a big party tons of people giant
big room you see it in West Side Story
and the gymnasium scene where the
dance-off happens to show the scope of
the war between the different cultures
so that's my yeah because yeah you're in
a kind of a claustrophobic situation in
the ship tight hallways little rooms
yeah and yeah and what's open it out
yeah yeah give you a scope yeah yeah
that make sense that make sense I just
wanted to talk about the fact that
there's a guy with a Butthead in the
background right he has a butt on his
head yeah is if effective well I mean if
he's if he's pooping a lot
hopefully not there and also there are
several Native Americans I there is
mixed in with the crew but they don't
look futuristic no they have like
feathered ears and one has like a
dreamcatcher hanging up yeah they look
like why are you
look like Dakota stereotypes yeah is
this right after Marlon Brando's like
Oscar Oscar hmm love to address the
plight of the move Americans air and
space now let's Gene Roddenberry's whole
dream and goal right to have everyone
represented and it's good
so maybe Gene Roddenberry said you know
I got I got I got the Russkies I got the
Japanese I got African Americans I never
ever thought about Native Americans put
a couple in there or or man with
buttholes a man with a giant butt on his
head would you say Gene Roddenberry's
relatively good-looking no gene
roddenberry looks a bit like a bag of
oatmeal with eyebrows eyebrows it's
closing up
I mean overall Star Trek the motion
picture it's it's a unique thing because
from to on it kind of found its footing
right as this one it's good or bad for
good or bad yeah this one it's like well
what do we do
what's a Star Wars is popular oh my gosh
and that's this is all so that's why
this movie needs to be respected so
badly because any movie that comes out
now on the coattails of another similar
genre film that can do something that
different as much as their you know
people compared to 2001 it's the perfect
way to go about a Star Trek movie right
right yeah there's no other way they
could do it yeah it still remained kind
of artistic and yeah artistic well done
and and true to the original TV show
right motion picture the best of the
original Star Trek films with the
exception of possibly four by ratha Khan
we already know who the characters are
we've known them from the old series but
we know who they are we know how they're
going to interact in the motion picture
we still don't know they're still
finding refining their footing yes yes
there's a an enjoyable arc to sit
through to to get to end of them right
I remember thinking the the sequences
when they're going through the cloud are
just so boring but now when I watch it
and I just sit back and I say they're
investigating this phenomenon they don't
know what it is and they're they're
going through it and they're discovering
it yes they as they enter the vide your
energy field and it's it's so so Star
Trek and you'll never have a movie like
that ever again
