Nov 5, 2018
Hackers
youtube.com/watch?v=lM7_oyCZqj0
redlettermedia.com/hackers-review
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/1059581842125475840

Jack: So, Mack.
MacKauley: Jack, what's up?
Jack: 1994, from the director of K-Pax, we get a...
MacKauley: Sold.
Jack: ...a vision of a computer filled future called
hackers hackers yes cult cult favorite
hackers why you keep saying that and I
don't believe it no I've actually never
seen it before I don't know why I'm here
welcome to hackers okay so how hackers
hackers is a movie mm-hmm it's certainly
his it's something that exists and it
it's such a dated movie I know I was in
love with this movie when it came out
you know 95 is probably one of God's
video release mm-hmm I was prime age I
was 13 maybe 14 I rollerblade it
everywhere we had just gotten our Dell
computer with our like AOL dis 64 mix of
100 megahertz SDRAM a 6.4 gig hard drive
Microsoft home essentials 98
a large screen monitor nice yes yes and
you watch hackers and you say this is
gonna be me this is the I can't wait to
dress that way there's just so many just
fun characters and like just no cuz
they're absolutely ridiculous almost
nobody comes out unscathed in this just
they're they're not like not only other
characters ridiculous but everyone seems
to be chewing the scenery in different
angles yes
so it's thoroughly chewed it's
everything yet the thing that struck me
the most was our main character well
what's the actor's name Oh Jonny Lee
Miller Jonny Lee Miller who everyone
knows from Trainspotting yes is doing a
his version of an American accent that
he picked up from like a 1920s
businessman yeah for million dollar
deals to that ten bucks at some guy pays
for gas no one's caught it because the
money isn't really gone everything he
says sounded like this you suddenly
friction Eider all he did was listen to
b-52s oh my god that's American oh I
gotta hack the main Mack the planet the
movie starts with a young zero cool hmm
hacking the planets yeah and getting
busted by the cops yeah super
slow-motion all over the place yeah and
then boom we get a court room kind of
thing and they pan across and get
everybody and then you find out the
defendant is like there's nobody there
and they pan down and it's just a little
child kid just a little child was a hack
was a hacker crashed like twelve hundred
and five systems in one day sit like
that Hey
another little thing Felicity Huffman is
the prosecutor which ones Felicity
Huffman she's the one from Desperate
Housewives
that's her there's a lot of those kind
of like little like kind of like oh look
hey there's Fisher Stevens like oh
there's Lorraine Bracco Fisher
Stephens this was one of his first major
motion pictures playing a white actor
yeah well ya know I have seen some
strange bizarre drivers but you you
might be awarded that cake what when did
you learn he was a white person probably
when I watch Twitter so yeah that's like
wow this Indian guy is really really
good Wow like yeah
feel kind of complete about the white
face thing yeah I know I actually I
don't I don't think I thought about it
until years later years later oh oh
so we fast-forward in the movie to date
mm-hmm Dade Murphy Dave Murphy it's his
18th birthday he's finally led to use
computers again and the phone and the
the basic plot of this movie as we kind
of keep rolling along is is actually a
very standard like it's almost like a
Western like a gunslinger the retired
gunslinger mm-hmm yeah it comes to help
the friends or like the the embattled
samurai has to save yep the the sleepy
town so yeah he's this super uber genius
and they just moved to New York City
yeah and he meets like you know like he
gets found out as kind of a hacker type
and gets caught up in a hacker crowd yes
which includes characters names like
serial killer The Phantom freak Lord and
icon yeah okay acid burn that's right
don't
a hacker you know this was before the
age of the Internet and so like the idea
of someone having like an internet name
was a really novel handle I need a
handle man I mean I don't have an
identity until I have a handle yeah
that's what they call it this is the
kids call it in the movie breaker
breaker zero one Niner this is this is
flapjack number three look it up boom
that's what you are and that's me that's
your yeah yeah yeah that's at flapjack
lab check number three at Waffle House
calm it's too much machine for you yeah
so yeah then he gets into a contest over
that's right yes like that's that's the
first like half of the movie because
it's looking up in the movie is
something else yeah yeah and it's it's
all wrapped around exactly the kind of
world that a thirteen-year-old kid kind
of thinks hackers and New York is yeah a
bunch of 30 year old teenagers clearly
18 years old oh yeah with with a five
o'clock shadow yes yep lots of
rollerblades
pseudo futuristic fashions it's almost
cyberpunk yeah crazy and like their
hangout is straight out of Teenage
Mutant Ninja Turtles yes it's the kids
it's a foot layer it has rollerblade
ramps on the inside that graffiti
everywhere no parent would understand
yeah yeah yeah and they watch it a show
called hack the planet look you know
yeah it's like drink Cola before energy
drinks all we had was jolt cold yeah I
mean you know Mountain Dew
that's sander that's your everyday dream
yeah that's still around but when you're
partying late at night reading comics
hanging out in a tent in your backyard
and that's when you pop open the jilt
had twice the caffeine of a coca-cola
you even had I got a lightning bolt on
it on the front and like yeah heck yeah
so yeah it's all about drinking Jolt
Cola and hacking the planet and they and
they like you know bring up a blood I
like just like lingo and you know like
good stuff just like dates like just
perfectly I think look up look up like a
fine wine frozen in your freezer has a
killer refresh rate v6 chip triple the
speed of the Pentium it's like oh you
know I want to triple my RAM like you
know they said two point eight megahertz
like Pentium processor like you know
it's like yeah all right like you know
you've got a serial bus control yeah
like ooh no that's that's fresh so like
you were saying the further the first
half this movies plant wise is a little
different than the second half the first
half the movie involves one of the most
awkward kind of romantic entanglements
that I've seen since episode two like
this is a straight-up stalker trying to
get a young Angelina Jolie to hang out
with them mm-hmm and he does so by by
stalking her by invading her classes in
school mm-hmm he follows her around at
night he break he like just uses her
computer without asking well to be fair
there was a group of them using her
computer Touche
was that top one-handed difficulty
rating seven but but his opening move
and a pretty slick one at that is by
beating her at a video game yes yes and
like not just any video game one of
those kind of when computer graphics
we're really like you know 3d animation
like I mean like on like that even on
par with the original Star Fox you know
just you know yeah and but it's it's got
like two controllers and stuff and it's
going down some kind of alleyway and it
was very clearly a real game it's very
yes it's very much a game that exists in
the real world I'm sure yeah oh yeah
looks like I'm on top that's an inside
line I know what sex is with girls
that's exactly what that's my date and
so yeah that kind of Usher's in a hacker
challenge who can hack the most well
yeah there you have to harass like the
local like FBI agents you know who's in
charge of hunting down those hackers
right yeah and so like where yeah look
just like you
every time he talks about hackers to the
press he he just keeps on saying the
same line and stuff adults they don't
get us at all mm-hmm I think that actor
is still playing FBI agents I mean he he
looks the part
look yeah he was just in that a very
bland amazon original Jack Ryan oh wow
playing an FBI agent he's got one type
welcome that's why they call me so yet
no so they harass him by um what are
they sign him up for like a sex hotline
kind of thing so he gets all kinds of
calls and max out its credit yeah they
actually kill him like digitally and you
know there's something I do want to talk
about with this movie is one of the neat
aspects of it is they kind of do their
due diligence when they talk about
hacking because you know what one part
of hacking is you know typing really
fast which by the way that's you should
see the typing in this fucking movie
it's amazing like yeah best hacker in
the planet just but but an actual part
to hacking is kind of this social
engineering side and and then you spend
a lot of time on that where you know
it's not just about creating your virus
you have to prank call someone to try to
get information
yeah it's tricks like the security guard
and so giving and like the number on the
modem are they to go dumpster diving
hoping to find pass so it's like it's a
really frustrating part with a movie cuz
I think it's it's actually a very bad
movie that has a just really poorly but
some things that they do are kind of
cool and interesting mmm-hmm but because
it's aged so poorly mmm-hmm yeah see I
mean I like I said I look at as like
just as a snapshot of just like just how
wrong we were like you know how wrong we
thought like how we thought we thought
future was going to be and it's such a
clear like it's such a clear vision yes
you know and it's like just so incorrect
that I find it like just gorgeous in its
own way look at me alright you know what
I'll give you that I think like people
of the early 90s saw this movie and they
said you know what instead of this
fashion what we're gonna do is wear
khakis and flannels because we don't
want to deal with them yeah yeah
never fear I is here back to Fisher
Stevens cuz he is just he's magic that
he says all his lines with such
sincerity mm-hmm that I I'm surprised
he's not the highest-paid actor ever
because he is dishing out these
ridiculous line with with absolute
conviction and with all due seriousness
we are the keyboard cowboys and all
those other people out there who have no
idea what's going on are the cattle and
you just like just but totally just like
eyes he like he thinks she's so cool
and he's he's Fisher Stevens in a fur
coat is really at the end of the day
that's what he is looking yeah it's
gorgeous look it looks he looks like it
like a guy who thought he was gonna be
in a vampire movie and then accidentally
ended up on the wrong said because he's
wearing these ridiculous outfits and I
know he's supposed to be like our
antagonist our main bad guy and at the
at the middle point of the movie right
at the beginning of our third act
he is skateboarding outside of a
limousine to pick up a floppy dick yeah
yeah and he's just riding that hold on
to the side and just snatches it and
keeps on ride and just keeps riding how
cool is this so cool so cool he actually
always a that's his name was Eugene yeah
and I can keep it every time he called
Eugene said I told you my name is the
plague even does it with his girlfriend
he doesn't he doesn't it work he doesn't
do the CEO of the company
he's like I'm the plague yeah good love
actually how no one's actually really
taking him seriously all of his
co-workers like oh it's like that old
bit or it's a like when you know sting
be you know the singer was his name is
Gordon like I mean he was a kid to
garden teachers even something like that
he just show to work one day and he's
just like don't call me Gordon anymore
I'm sting he's like yeah like no we're
not gonna call you sting he's like no
but no but I'm sting like you know like
I'll start a rock band name like you
know yeah so it's like it's like okay
whatever
mister the plague
today 1984 you right there that's a
tight boat
Orwell's here now he's living large we
have no names man no names we are
nameless I think I think we should take
this I'm gonna talk about Matthew
Lillard I don't know exactly like what
to say because I like certain times you
get pretty speechless with the choices
that he makes on a scale from 1 to 10
he's like a 53 I think yeah he's just
like yeah he's all over the place
Hendricks on there some job when Mama
Cass and you know like I think everyone
probably first saw Matthew Lillard in
scream you know that was his first yeah
and he's a he's a big eccentric weird
and scream baby but here it's beyond
yeah it's bi like he's wearing outfits
that belong in Mad Max yes sad max it's
a Josh one that's a Josh but you see all
this this is every financial transaction
Ellingson conducts yeah from million
dollar deals to that ten bucks at some
guy pays for gas the worm eats a few
cents from each transaction the the main
plot for the bad guys is it's the plague
and his girlfriend Paula Poundstone are
attempting to embezzle money from their
company using not a virus a worm what's
the difference well they don't explain
it yeah we don't need it though yeah I
feel like the the office space stole a
lot of this plot ideas yes yes yeah
there would not be an office space if it
wasn't for hackers this sounds familiar
yeah they didn't Superman three right
yeah so so they're trying to steal money
they're trying to embezzle and the
hacker crew that we've been hanging out
with one of them played by Jesse
Bradford I know exactly Jesse Bradford
no Jesse Bradford he's fine I think we
got a hacker yeah he gets his hands on
some of the you know hacks into like
their mainframe and copies a garbage
file a trash file but stumbles and just
stumbles into it because he wants proof
that he would like hacked
the Gibson looking at and then next
thing you know he gets it he gets that's
where they were hiding their worm that
was stealing all the money so then now
like you know now the plague and all
them are there after there after the
hackers so you've mentioned a lot of
things you know we've talked a lot about
how this movie is terribly dated and
trying very hard to be cool and so
hacking the Gibson yes that's that's a
point that's a yes it's a running kind
of thing like oh man if you just hack
that Gibson man is a Gibson you could
probably only do it in ten minutes with
my help we can do it in seven there's
the classic gunslinger scene where where
our main hero Dade is proving his
knowledge and so Matthew Lillard starts
whipping out hacker books in shirt book
guide to IBM pc's so called due to the
nasty pink shirt that I wear Tomiko it's
a devil book UNIX Bible you need them
all you know you know he's looking right
at the titles yeah he's been actually
dedicated networking is done yeah
exactly yeah he's yeah
was that it Sam right yeah sword its
dude that's Sam right right yeah yeah
you're doing it yeah yeah look can we
add a sword J can we add a 3d sword
that's not gonna happen
like I said it's it's to be respect that
everyone is just playing big bold
characters like with sincerity amazing
fashion choices except for you know
Angelina Jolie who's kind of playing it
cool yes doing any whatever she looks
great she does well we get a tiny boob
action so that's always yeah yeah it's
services the story yes because it's a
dream sequence yeah there's actually is
a series of dream sequences in this look
at me yes there's one where the kid
wakes up and he thinks he's getting
arrested and stuff like that he runs out
and there's all these cops there and
then he wakes up goes oh that's crazy
then he goes back to sleep
any wakes up and and then the cops
arrest him he's like deja vu what
happened a date has a date has the date
has it multiple like sex dreams about
Angelina Jolie and then there's one you
think it's his dream but no it's hers
yeah that actually that was part of like
they had a couple style choices in
hackers that started off really strong
and then they completely forgot about
yeah it's kind of just looking yeah like
like half-baked ideas and not in the
comedic kind of sense they literally
just they took them out of the oven too
soon like you know you have some running
gag dream sequences in the beginning of
the movie to kind of showcase Dade's
thought process they keep like cutting
two old comic strips and like old movies
yeah yeah I forgot about that again
first sees Angelina Jolie and it's like
hard cuz like like girls lips and
kissing like fire like you know yeah mmm
and it was very like very MTV generation
very very fast very I mean ugly bad but
at least this is at least its choices
like strong choices yeah yeah and then
they just forgot about like that doesn't
work like oh we right know how he thinks
what's cool we got it we got that got
that zero cooldown boom boom he thinks
in terms of Twilight Zone episodes boom
they had a couple very neat practical
effects in hackers one of the one of the
opening shots the title shot is they're
flying over New York City and it fades
gently to a replica of New York City but
as a motherboard yeah yes really shot
and also the movie ages itself even
worse because there's the Pan Am
building is there yeah I think it hadn't
been the Pentium building for about
eight years at that point I mean that's
some serious stock footage usage like
yeah they're like no we're not gonna
rent a helicopter you know it's been the
metlife building since like 1988 no
exactly and again you can kind of tell
from the stock of that footage I think
the biggest challenge for this movie is
because computers were relatively
unknown of like the internet computers
early 90s not everyone had one people
barely understood what the internet was
so they could just be etched their way
through a lot of this and they needed to
visualize competitors and so like one of
their main tools was just to build a big
room with all the files in like light
panels yes yes very on esque
you know yeah yeah yeah and like just
yet cuz yeah I mean you know loosely
tried to break it down for all those
normal people who just don't know how to
hack the planet
cookie you idiot I'll head him off at
the pass
so they'll they all come together though
that was the whole thing I think that's
the one of the big kind of things is
that there is this bunch of people all
around the world that are all you know
involved in this like new technology
this new movement yeah yeah and they all
get come together to hack that Gibson
that's right because you can't hack the
Gibson it's two Powell's too powerful
but like hackers unite and then there's
a that sequence where they cut around
the whole world where it's like alright
let's do this you know I've been like
you know there's some people speak in
French so they call and then like then
they're in Tokyo and then like yeah and
then like just and you can see like you
know just the files like in the
three-dimensional recreation just you
know and you know they're hacked because
they turn red because they turn red yeah
Green is look good for the bad guys red
is like Gibson's getting overwhelming
Fisher Stevens and Gillette can't keep
up they can't handle it and Paula
Poundstone is just trying desperately
she's like I think she's being like our
comic relief don't send a flu shot
rabbit flu shot someone talk to me till
it overloads of file then it spreads
like cancer cancer cancer flu shut oh my
god
oh you know something we should talk
about which we've we've talked about a
little bit but I want to make sure we
focus in on it is you're a filmmaker
okay sure and you are making a film
where people are typing mm-hmm but now
you got to make it look cool how do you
do that
oh you got to put them in a phone booth
okay all right got to put phone booth on
a lazy susan and you just spin those
kids just spin them real good you know
and just like yeah next so you know it
just I would just I would love to just
have been there that day when they just
put every actor in the movie just in a
phone booth and just it's gonna look
great
it's do slow motion just you know with
that problem
yeah killer yeah no I mean it is that's
one of the things actually I do own the
soundtrack um and it is so so hackers it
is so it's so they like that techno
stuff and like there was a couple of
like there's one or two of those bands
that are a kind of Rage Against the
Machine knockoff kind of bands looking
at like that it's it is just again like
the movie itself it just has not like
you know is it is aged well and the fact
that it hasn't aged well at all
yes yes look at that that's what I like
that's when I get a kick out of this
movie is that like it's just like making
those you know just kind of having fun
like with it
look at front of it even its expense
it's that it was that time in the 90s
like before kind of the the the decades
solidified a fashion where people were
throwing shit against the wall you know
it's a little industrial it's a little
guy little grunge it's a little it's a
little bit of nothing
yeah and everything yeah I was still
like you know like even though we were
halfway through the 90s we still hadn't
figured out what it was I mean people I
think people so had pogs around then
okay like it's like we had a lot of bad
ideas like in the 90s or so there was
nowhere to hack pogs no that could have
been no I'm pretty sure bitcoins or pogs
actually you think yeah go to the hell
come on you son of a bitch that all you
got huh come on let's see what else you
can do you talking to me hackers is this
very it kind of much like the the decade
it's set in it's a little nebulous yeah
where it's it's not a all time classic
then someone needs to see it but it is a
really interesting time cap it knows
what it is it just like it what it is in
this isn't necessarily what like we want
but it has a very clear vision of what
it is looking at and I think that's a
kind of part of the appeal I think you
know for me is that like that like know
thine self you know it's like jackers
knows what it is like it again but you
know or at least they thought it knew
what it was it clearly did it's it's
just it's the it's a it's a strange
thing where it's not like that 80s
Spielberg nostalgia trip we said oh this
is exactly as good as I remember mmm if
not more so because now I know how he
made it this this is like the beginning
of teenage cynicism where is this is
mm-hmm this is weird to watch the whole
style of the piece look good like I yeah
you watch hackers like you're gonna you
know you're gonna wake up the next day
and kind of going hey I just watch
hackers like you know it's like what was
what is that was it elfin she was
wearing what the fuck was that
look should I mess with the best or
should I die like the rule hack the
planet active planet
well Jack time to hack the planet
is that a medicine man reference cuz
it's Lorraine Bracco who plays the top
Paula Poundstone Poundstone it's
Lorraine Bracco who's Lorraine Bracco
the woman from hackers soprano that's
really not Paula Poundstone no it's not
I thought it was a joke - no I should
have let you go like oh my god okay well
first of all she sounds exactly like
Paula Lorraine Bracco and follow pound
stone maybe it's just like her bad
overdub but like I just heard that voice
I was like wow Paula Poundstone she was
young I thought you were joking is all time
