May 24, 2018
Critters
youtube.com/watch?v=OvcYqeukasM
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/999767980002152448
redlettermedia.com/critters-review

well J we're back on a new episode of
review and we're here to talk about one
of our favorite movies that features
tiny monsters running amok it's 1997
film the evening star a sequel to terms
of endearment you didn't even know that
existed digit well Mike we're going to
talk about critters and a little bit
about the sequels probably more so the
second one and not so much the third and
fourth one these movies kind of been
forgotten for the most part I would say
critters is a forgotten film out of
curiosity I clicked on the Rotten
Tomatoes score of critters and it was
like in the 20% really that's no never
both really liked it you know I liked
this film for the same reasons you did
normally what we get are these creatures
from outer space coming in tearing up
the people in Planet Earth and then
fighting and see who wins this film says
forget the people pretty much on planet
Earth
let the aliens fight it out themselves
well let me let me say this I don't talk
about critter as much and we talked
about gremlins more gremlins is the gold
standard for tiny monster movies yes
critters is some weird it's very tiered
yes it's gremlins critters large gap
Ghoulies and below that are the really
bad ones yes it's just a weird little
window of time when everybody was
ripping off gremlins mm-hmm
but it is we should know - supposedly
critters was written before gremlins but
it was shot after gremlins had come out
and become a huge success and that
certainly shows in the movie because
it's not like gremlins really much at
all but there is a clear influence in
certain areas of the movie yes yes in
montage sequences montage is a little
rubber puppet monsters just reckon shit
but like I was saying I don't talk about
critters much one cuz I'm embarrassed to
- we're doing an episode well yeah it's
it it's one of those movies that I
watched probably 5000 times when I was
little it's even to the point where it
inspired me to shoot my own little
rubber puppet monster movies okay you
talked about the first one I'm talking
about the first one because what I've
kind of not the second one interestingly
enough because I was gonna say most
people I think critters in this aspect
is similar to Ghoulies in that when most
people think of it what they're really
thinking of is the second movie I
[Applause]
watched critters one so many times -
where I recognize like every beat every
line really yeah and then the second one
I watch the second one and I was like I
don't know about this it's okay but as
an adult my opinion is completely
flipped the second one is a far superior
film but the first one is it does not
hold up but it is very very effective
and well done even for what it was it
trying to accomplish
well it's yeah it's it's a b-movie
it was made by New Line Cinema in the
early days of New Line Cinema when all
they had was Freddy Krueger this is pre
Lord of the Rings days it's a good
example of a movie that is clearly
trying to ape off the success of a
larger movie but infuses enough of its
own creativity where it kind of stands
on its own because I I'm the exact
opposite where I saw it critters to a
million times as a kid and I only saw
the first one maybe once or twice and
then re watching it at this time I like
them both probably equally part 1 & 2
but I was watching the first one and
like what a what a what a treat what a
delightful little dumb weird b-movie it
is as an adult watching it there's so
many weird things in it I would compare
critters one to a typical best of the
worst like sci-fi movie where you watch
it and you you go what are you doing why
are you doing that not watching critters
where you watch it best vs. iPhone yeah
you're like oh god you're doing
everything wrong you squandered this you
screwed this up you know obviously you
had no budget but you fucked it all up
like a Don Dahler film you focused on
the wrong aspects you've got 20 minutes
and people wandering around in the woods
yes yes exactly yeah Don Dahler film
without the charm is a vast number of
best of the worst movies but with
critters you you know it's low-budget
you know they didn't have much to work
with but they they took all those
elements and they put them all in the
right places and they made a solid
little tiny crappy b-movie that that
works on a very simple level
yeah with with with unique unique
choices and very specifically what I was
thinking about was the bounty hunters
right
[Applause]
in this movie have bounty hunters and
they walk around they have play-doh
heads that glow green right because they
can transform into anyone that they're
essentially shapeshifters and they can
they can look at something and mimic it
which is perfect for being a bounty
hunter because you have to go to alien
planets and blend in yeah and so even
though they're generic form is the human
body yeah yeah although what they do
show in critters too that they can
change that body shape yes that's very
important to note but the the Bounty
Hunter's a typical b-movie would be two
dudes yeah we were boney hood but this
throws in that cute little thing where
one it one takes the form of a famous
rock star on TV because he's like that's
it what's the thing like Johnny Steele
or Johnny Steele he has a terrible rock
song that plays throughout
[Music]
and then the other one his his quirk is
that he can't really decide transform
and that leads to wonderful comic
moments where he is changing form into
characters in the town yeah people are
wondered why this priest is running
around shooting critters well just the
fact that the movie has intergalactic
bounty hunters in it mm-hmm it's not
just there's these little monsters
running around and they're attacking the
town most of the critter action is
focused on the farmhouse and this is
like the other story is the bounty
hunters which could easily wipe them out
but they just have to find them first so
I have the movies I'm just trying to
track him down yes but the idea that the
critters are on earth because they broke
out of a space prison they come in here
to ship these little critters and
they're flying around the spaceship and
they went on earth it's too oddball
ideas that that don't really fit that
well together to me but in the Contin
the whole context it works because yeah
critters you think okay it's taking
place on a farm kid digs up some you
know frozen eggs in at the bottom of a
lake that are from prehistoric times and
somehow got preserved throughout
hundreds of thousands of years and they
hatch these are ancient but for some
reason the critters are intelligent they
can talk to each other and there are
fugitives but really they're just little
balls with teeth that want to eat people
yeah they just want to feed but for some
reason they're intergalactic so those
two things don't work it all together
that makes it fun though that's that's
what I mean yeah is is is a less
creative filmmaking team would say okay
critters what do we do there the
creatures with mouths and digs them up
from the ground there yeah they live in
the barn yeah other critters critters
live in your walls and in the
floorboards and they eat your chickens
yeah but instead they they steal a
spaceship
[Music]
so the other yeah the other half of the
movie is the family I get a little bit
of tremors vibes with not just the
family but the town you have all the the
interesting little yup the town drunk
that is is vindicated and his belief in
aliens and although he thinks aliens
talked to him through the fillings and
his teeth coincidentally vindicated yeah
exactly and he he has a nice little arc
between the first two movies and then
they keep bringing him back for the
third and fourth don opera because well
I looked him up I was like who is this
guy because he becomes the the the rock
the base of this entire franchise
writing the movies at a certain plant
well he he has a weird credit on the
first one where it's like additional
scenes written by and I was like what
does that mean but I looked him up cuz
like who is this guy and he hasn't had
much of a career outside of the critters
movies his brother is the producer of
all the critters movies it's like oh not
at all big Sutton's cuz he is just
worthless in three and four the writing
of the first to make his character work
but he's not like he's not super funny
or charismatic or charming he works in
those first two movies because of the
character and how he was written by side
care he's a side character he should not
be the the foundation of the entire
you're not gonna talk about the cancer
that is critters three and four and we
will briefly briefly mention them but
not even finish the fourth one poor
Angela Bassett
and Leonardo DiCaprio everyone's got to
start somewhere
although I had I had a dream that Scott
Grimes and Leonardo DiCaprio teamed up
first for critters Grimes is
what's-his-face um Brad Brad Brad Brown
Brad Brown yes in the in the first and
second film and Scott Grimes is also on
the Orville he's the helmsman ha ha got
you
what although maybe it's it's Seth
MacFarlane is a secret critters fan and
you just resurrected him from his job at
Pizza uh no yeah I don't think he's done
much but yeah he's he's fine on that
show
he's back but I want to see Scott Grimes
and Leonardo DiCaprio team up Brad Brown
is back for the ultimate critters it'll
be it'll have to be a fan film it this
won't be an official release well if you
could Leo in and you're not making a fan
film no Lee if Leo wants in he could
find the financing Jay that's true I
think I want to make this picture I want
to get back to my roots I'm gonna get
back to my roots ah no pay homage to my
very first acting role we're gonna get
Martin to direct it that's gonna be
called critters what would we call it
critters the returned critters bite back
critters bite back how's that
that's not bad jam that's real good
critters bite back aka critters five you
give it okay you give a cameo to Angela
Bassett and shows us anyone looks like a
famous person now yes right Dora who's
in the fourth one yeah Dee Wallace yeah
shit she'll come back as Brad's mom she
will definitely come back brad has to
move his mom into the retirement castle
and that's where the critters I don't
know cuz that's when I was in the third
movie it's all just in one building
boring thing ever
well we'll figure out our plot detail
later Leo call us yeah call us I know I
know you don't have many choices
nowadays for roles but this is gonna be
a good one mom though is played by Dee
Wallace oh shit Billy Zane's back this
is this is a play Lee steamrolled D ro V
Wallace to talk about Billy Zane well
okay Dee Wallace hot off ET one of the
most successful films in the history of
motion pictures right to critter right
to critters well she was the mom I think
she was it was in her contract she had
to play the mom in any 80s sci-fi movie
but yeah you got Dee Wallace in the most
successful film in the history of the
world and then you also have Billy Zane
who was in also in one of the most
successful films in the history of the
world demon Knight yes now the only main
cast member from Titanic that isn't in
any of these movies as Kate Winslet
unless she played one of the critters
well one more thing about the family
yeah the daughter because it's there's
there's Scott Grimes as the younger
brother they pulled her daughter is her
name April I remember all the
character's name the first one okay
that's amazing she one year later she
was in munchies I thought you're gonna
say one year later she killed herself
so that was two years later okay but
yeah just just taking a step down in
terms of gremlins knockoffs and jr.
missing the most important acting role
ever and I don't know if you noticed it
but guess who's in this film who Neelix
my favorite Star Trek clown who's Neelix
in this he's the the one of the police
officers the one that gets pulled under
the car
that's Neelix yeah his name is um Ethan
Phillips okay we got to put our cast
list together for critters bite back
it's Neelix is he gonna be in it as
Neelix
it's space-related his feelings why not
yeah a little cross it a little offshoot
he like a little subtle craft from
Voyager lands it's a Neelix and he's on
like solo mission swept up in the plot
to meet Neelix and a critter flies into
his crotch he's got to fly back to
Voyager for emergency surgery mm-hmm
after after like five minutes of being
in the film no it's Carol I show a Star
Trek character for five minutes or less
before paramount comes after you no but
you can up to five minutes again okay
four minutes 58 seconds Neelix that's
when he gets a critter down his trouser
ruse all right sounds good eats eats his
alien ballsack
your subclass genus okay so that's
pretty much the movie it's very simple
once you get past all the weird setup
stuff but one of my favorite aspects of
the movie is the the extreme excessive
collateral damage
that's why the Blues Brothers is the
best movie ever made you know I think
she's recklessly being destroyed when
when the bounty hunters smashed their
police car into the church Blues
Brothers
yeah and that's very similar to that and
that not well just they're there I mean
they are on their missions and they're
so like stone-faced and they don't care
what gets in their way
and like I think it's they go to the
bowling alley and they don't just open
the door he just rips the flame and then
of course the farmhouse gets completely
destroyed once they actually know where
the critters are they've got those giant
cannons and they can easily take care of
them it's just you're just waiting for
them to get to that farmhouse well they
got it they got to adapt to human
culture first and we'd say there's more
of that in the second movie - yes that
and that that that's almost like the
heart of the critters movies is Lobby
high jinks with the Bamiyan yeah more so
than the critters like like if if if I
were to rewrite a critters you know
movie it would be back and forth scenes
between bounty hunter hijinks I mean so
they're hunting down the Crites and and
they even have that like when they get
in the cop car took ten minutes as I'm
trying to figure out how to drive it and
then you drive it backwards first
because they don't know what they're
doing yeah this is wonderful
well that's that's why I think the
original because this was supposedly
written before gremlins I think that
probably was the main focus of it was
these boundary bounty hunters trying to
get these creatures that have escaped
yeah and then there once gremlins came
out there like up the up the critters
the critters are fun I mean there's more
critter action in the second movie I
like the design of the critters have a
couple little unique characteristics but
they are what I would think of in a
movie called critters yeah things like
that are the perfect design this and
they introduced something in this movie
that never comes back in any of the
sequels which I guess the idea is that
the more they eat the bigger they get
because there's the one critter that's
like human size by the end of this movie
that's that's completely abandoned and
all the sequels what is it what is it is
it it's dragging the daughter onto the
ship right yes makes me think that the
original scripts the original idea they
weren't little critters yeah so we
talked about how the original script may
have been slightly different my thoughts
were lizard-men you said space Apes I
did yes can we play back the tape sure I
think in the original script they were
space Apes at the end for no apparent
reason at all they dragged the daughter
into their spaceship and which seems
bizarre if they were a lizard men who
wanted like a lady slave sure you know
what I mean yeah but they're just
bringing around there for food I guess
even though they could have easy access
to food everywhere but yeah she's like a
teenage girl I mean she's not gonna
provide much food yeah like you can just
get the big fat guy from Town Square to
get in the car or getting the spaceship
or maybe like how yeah well that's what
I think that originally there was maybe
something else going on with the aliens
but sure they're having them dragger on
the ship at the end is like we need
something to happen we need some reason
for for Brad and and and Charlie yeah to
to blow them up because obviously okay
yeah go yeah look the important part is
that the entire house blows up at its
glorious
the icing on the cake for that is the
critters just do it just to be mean
there's no need to do it and they just
laugh
well the second film is wonderful it is
exactly what a critter sequel needed to
be yes well it has more this is a
conversation we're having this is real
life like yeah they take their that
original film low budget you know a
couple of critters here and they're
mostly boring but a couple of funny
moments and I said what do people like
from that one let's up that tenfold and
let's do and it has a wonderful little
like kind of framing device with the
with the eggs and the Easter oh yeah
yeah the movie takes place on Easter and
there's an old grandma lady buys all the
eggs like a junk dealer yeah and then
they show that critters x0 painted in
pastel colors I mean that's wonderful
yeah the cheese no no Chief of Police
has to dress up like the Easter Bunny
and then yet again they destroy a church
[Music]
setting the stage for a wonderful
reoccurring thing and all the critters
movies to come unfortunately they
haven't followed through with that yeah
yeah it has it has more fun with the
bounty hunter concepts and especially
the shape-shifting concept
[Music]
it's a little weird than when that when
Lee transforms into Eddie deezen but
he's still wearing the same like sexy
version of the outfit of the bunny in
her outfit it's like it's nightmare fuel
I didn't need to see that you know it's
very disappointing to I remember being
disappointed by this as a kid when it
looks like Lee is about to transform
into Freddy Krueger yes I didn't go all
the way with it if they had a little
Robert Englund cameo that would have
been the cherry on top more critters
there they're a little bit goofy earn
more gremlins like Maria there's the
great scene where they're they've taken
over the what's it called the hungry
heifer the hungry hippo God that song
haunts me feel it's awful they destroy
that place everything just gets
destroyed it's so great
there are so many wonderful little
things and then of course the critter
ball is is the big the big thing that
everybody remembers what we learned from
this movies the critters can combine
together like Voltron and just be a
giant printer ball that four or five of
them combined into a bigger ball at one
point yeah
the flu at the farmer with the pitch
work I mean it's it's there's there's a
lot of one wondrous wonderous schlock
and critters too so yeah the first one
the main climax is in the farmhouse and
then this one they up it this is a
sequel should they they take everything
that was in the first one and just kind
of up a tree in the whole whole town
trying to take down the critter yep yep
even there was even a cameo from Vince
Lombardi I was walking with the crowd
packers coach I know who Vince Lombardi
is I was unaware he was in a critter
sequel okay if he weren't dead I'd say
we get him back for her critters five
herders bite back but I think he's long
dead now no you know they couldn't get
em Emmet Walsh back so they just
replaced him with another actor no he
was in it no the sheriff is a different
actor is it in a second movie yeah well
they did a good job replacing him
because I didn't notice it looks
completely different so guy I'm sorry
I'm not an M Emmet Walsh aficionado what
do you do I don't know my elderly men
from the 80s by the way I had looked it
up well you hey you know what sign him
up critters five critters fight gotta
get rolling in the Curtis five before he
or he dies I want him to be the lead
that whole you know I like Lin Shaye
she's in all these new line cinema
movies but now she's in her like 70s but
she's the lead of the insidious movies
let's make mmm at Walsh easily be the
new lead of the critters franchise okay
what about Scott Grimes he could be in
it here's the premise for critters five
okay Scott comes back to visit his
grandma who's still alive okay and
that actress Ament live still then we
got to dig up her bones or we met an
animatronic an animatronic version of
what that thing guy doesn't make the
critters they'll do it the the Chodos
brothers yeah you know there was a there
was a hardcore band called the Chiodos
brothers in the early 2000s then they
there's a band that was named after the
guys who did this special effects and
killer clowns from outer space yeah
they directed that there was a man
called she had the Chiodos brothers and
then they changed their name to just she
Oh toes but anyway they got to make a
the Cheerios have to make a puppet of
dead grandma yes grandma is still
running her daycare but what the 2016
this like skeleton yeah that's like a
like a plain white skeleton the twist is
it's it's no longer a daycare it is a
drug rehab center okay and it's all the
same kids that were in her daycare all
grown up and they become methamphetamine
addicts in Kansas we got to find all
those kid actors yes every single one
regardless of what you're doing in your
life you're coming back and Nana's
getting them clean okay but Nana's also
I thought you're gonna say it's a home
for the elderly and that's why I haven't
Walsh's there maybe they're lovers now
okay and we have to have this like scene
where I'm Emmet Walsh makes out with a
skeleton quite a skeleton it's like like
a maze eiated corpse she's just like the
Crypt Keeper yes and and and the secret
the secret power that is grandma Holtz
yeah is that she's so frail and old the
critters have no interest in trying to
eat her oh she's the one who has to has
to go in into the critters lair with a
bomb she's got like at your PC don't you
and that falls down like breaks her head
I pictured her she can't lift the
suitcase with the bomb and here she's
like and we have the the critters have
have over the last 30 years have
burrowed into the ground and created
like an alien's cavern oh yeah else they
all go on the walls like that picturing
like a like an ant farm almost yes
exactly it's all under the town like an
ant farm
yeah and so they come up out of nowhere
they eat the cows and come back down
again and an Nana has to go down into
the caves
maybe the town blacksmith builds like a
critter suit why would she need a
critter suit though no tow rescue Nana
oh okay
kind of a plot of the movie is rescuing
Nana well towards the end yes that's one
of the the later complications is not a
falls and breaks their hip then the bomb
is set on the timer okay so getting at
Nana
before this they have to weld together
like like a impervious to critters kind
of suit like the Hulkbuster suit likes
are like the the bear suit yeah is that
the guy that built the suit anyone can
attack my bears Scott Grimes has got to
go rescue Nana
mm-hmm and Charlie isn't in the movie at
all no we're done with that guy that Don
upper out of here out of here I don't
know what happened to him at the end of
four I didn't finish it that's that's
the biggest takeaway especially in
trying to rewatch them it's just how I
mean the third one the only notable
thing about it is that leaner DiCaprio
isn't it hot off his stint on growing
pains but the movie is so boring it's in
an apartment complex
there's not even any fun critter stuff I
think at one point one of them eats and
dishwashing soap and like burps bubbles
yeah it's it's almost like they were
trying to like as stupid as this sounds
take the subject matter more seriously a
little bit even more so in the fourth
one the fourth one is just like a
joyless slog there's no humor at all no
and those characters are parables are
likable liliane just think about the
fourth one is the cast - because you got
Dorf isn't it for some reason angela
bassett poor Angela bath said and then
Leo from Twin Peaks isn't it well then
it gets even more he said he didn't even
finish it it gets even worse at the end
when ugh shows up I don't know why in
all the sequels August still in the form
of the rock star others like they wanted
to get the same actor back but he shows
up at the end and he is now for
absolutely no reason a bad guy what your
game is and then Charlie shoots him in
the head it's ugh in the head and that's
other movie ends yeah just erase those
from existence that's fine there's
nothing redeeming about them well we'll
revive that spirit when we make Curtis
five where is I've been hearing like for
the last year or two there's they're
working on a critters like like a web
show yeah it's gonna be like a streaming
service that won't exist in another year
it's gonna suck it's gonna suck listen
to our ideas Emmet Walsh sleeping with
the Crypt Keeper and underground tunnels
yeah but I mean our cast is is I mean
it's it's a deal breaker
we need Leo I need Scott Grimes and we
need Billy Zane and Angela Bassett
Billy's ain't dies though
well he comes back he just has like a
scar yeah he has a really bad scar okay
it's like Donald Pleasence and Halloween
for ya know he gets completely
obliterated at the end of the second
movie he's got a tiny scar on his cheek
right but they show they show the
meeting Billy Zane's guts and then they
don't really show them like officially
dead
okay it was kind of like we can bring
Billy Zane back yeah all right he's the
blacksmith it makes the suits the
critters ate out his guts so horribly
that he was paralyzed from the waist
down so he builds himself robot legs
he's the town blacksmith okay that works
and he and he's walking around at the
end like like smashing critters well we
have to make this happen so we can put a
nice bow on the end of the the critters
saga yeah I really need some closure
yeah cuz that fourth one all right well
we're gonna we're gonna erase three and
four from existence we're jumping from
two to five okay we're doing the
Halloween route then where we just
ignore sequels that we don't like okay
full Halloween on alright critters and I
don't know do the charros brothers still
do do puppetry yeah yeah let's tour huh
I was gonna say if we can't get them
then we'll just have to get the band
puppets never made a puppet before
critters effects by the Charro's
brothers
