Aug 23, 2018
Predator
youtube.com/watch?v=ruMLUFmSO4k
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/1032754043712663553
redlettermedia.com/predator-review

well Jack we're here today to talk about
predator not to be confused with
predators or the predator or alien vs
predator or alien predator so we're
talking about the one with the guy from
lethal weapon sort of yeah that's true
predator predator
1987 mm-hmm one of the best action
movies ever made followed up a year
later John McTiernan same guy directed
predator made die hard also one of the
best action movies ever made you know
predator is is so rewatching it after so
long it's so fascinating because it's an
action movie in the sense that alien is
a sci-fi movie we're really it's this
it's an action movie but it's a hidden
slasher flick yeah so I was gonna
mention that it's it's a lot of
different genres in one and it's it
reminds me looking back on it of from
dusk till dawn where it's like the
characters think they're in one type of
movie and then all of a sudden BAM they
get interrupted by another type of movie
and then they have to deal with that
yeah so it's this you know commando
esque schlocky action movie that that
gets gets like creeped on by a horror
movie yeah and it's beautiful by a
horror movie
and simultaneously a sci-fi movie
because it's an alien from outer space
right and it starts off I guess real
briefly the basic set up is Arnold
Schwarzenegger has a team of mercenaries
that are hired by Carl Weathers to to go
in and rescue these refugees in Central
America and while they're there they
discover that Carl Weathers actually at
other plans for them but more important
than that they are being stalked and
preyed on by an alien from outer space
that is on earth for the sole purpose of
sport basically of hunting humans of
game hunting and so they're like oh fuck
now we gotta deal with this situation
and that's that's it it's like the
simplest prime as ever there's no
standard film structure to this it just
descends it just unfolds there there is
in the sense of like we always talk
about the structure when you have a
monster movie of like you wait 30
minutes before you show the monster and
it kind of follows that a little bit
there's a couple little hints early on
of the predator I think it's like 45
minutes in when he finally takes off his
cloak device that's the first time you
actually see him just briefly just just
briefly there's little glimpses of them
they don't blow their water Leon I
actually wish there was less because the
movie starts out it's the exact same
opening as the thing which is we see
earth we see an alien spaceship fly down
and hit the earth and in both movies I
wish they didn't have that I wish you
were dropped into this commando
situation and then you along with the
characters realized what was happening
because that's the way from gustl Don is
they have no idea they're in a vampire
movie and so halfway through the movie I
agree with that and you know listening
to some of the behind-the-scenes
featurettes on the blu-ray that was
added later that was added without I
think without even the director knowing
I think the studio added that but even
then you forget about that alien
spaceship by the time Carl Weathers and
Arnold are doing their handshake bitch
what spaceship that's true well that
matter yeah because of muscles cuz
muscles this is the the manliest movie
ever made I think that's what I love
most about predator is it's the movie
that your dad rented because he thought
it was commando yes it's it's like it's
like it tricks you yep because that
opening action scene we got was set up
her characters we had Carl Weathers we
got our own Swardson ager we got Jesse
the body Ventura I'm sorry well I guess
he was the body at the time but now he's
known as the mind now he's the mind
although he shouldn't even be that
anymore no now he's the lost yeah Shane
black who is a screenwriter who wrote
Lethal Weapon and you know he's doing
the new predator which is kind of neat
but the reason I guess the reason he was
cast in the movie is because they wanted
someone to punch up the script while
they were making it and that shows
there's lots of very clearly Shane black
s Cline's and the script delivered
mostly by Shane blonde I don't know
their most famous one in the movie I
think is Ventura but people always quote
that as like oh that's so badass they
always ignore what happens right after
that we ain't got time to leave that's
so that's what sells that line like he's
acknowledging that it's absurd little
comedy mo alright dude yeah yeah so yeah
Pancho who is not Shane black right who
is the only other not ridiculously buff
guy that's not Shane it's confusing
because you have Shane black and then
you have the guy who looks just like
Shane black but doesn't have glasses mhm
yeah Bill Duke and then Who am I missing
no Billy Billy yeah and Lady who they
pick up a lady who they pick up along
the way yeah who just kind of stares off
for most of the movie
but you got these guys these these these
big 80s action movie guys and you have
they infiltrate the camp and it is the
most excessive ridiculous display of
guns and violence
because because it's a sneaky horror
movie they knew that they could take an
entire movies worth of action sequences
and just do it on one go yeah it was
great explosions stuntmen fallen into
lakes classic Arnold puns stick around
which are see horribly out of place
later on in the movie but yes they are
well the movie it kind of like all those
elements Sora gets stripped away as the
movie goes along so then by the end when
it's just the predator in Arnold it's
like it's just this primal thing they
get cut like it's life the way yeah but
and like a lot of that action again
reading or listening to a lot of the
behind the scenes stuff the guys that
shot all that action stuff was like the
a-team guys it's what you get lots of
people falling and you get people on
fire you get people falling while on
fire that's never everything you want
and one of the guys there's a part when
Arnold goes into one of the huts and he
shoots a guy that goes flying through
the wall that guy that gets shot through
the wall is then old Thorsen who was
like a good buddy of Arnold
Schwarzenegger and there's like a
stuntman in his own right he's in a
bunch of movies he's actually the head
of mall security and mall rats oh that
guy but most importantly he was in
another movie with Jesse Ventura he was
in Abraxas he was the villain in Abraxas
praxis the touching story of Jesse
Ventura falling in love with a little
boy do you want to sit up here with me
story it's about John McTiernan new
directed us he's like for a while he was
like one of the best action directors I
mean this diehard
I like last action hero I know that
movies kind of got a mixed perception
but I think it's fun but yeah you know
he directed lots of great movies until
he was directed to prison for perjury
well that's a whole other story
INRI watching this movie I noticed how
contemporary it feels it doesn't feel
like a dated 80s action movie like a lot
of movies from that era like a commando
or something which is the best movie
ever made but that's because it's so
dated and silly but this movie like it
feels like a modern movie and I think
it's just the way John McTiernan shot
action and the way you edited like lots
of lots of fluid camerawork lots of lots
more coverage lots more angles and a lot
of movies from that era
lots of quicker cutting like it really
it does not feel like like a corny old
movie it still feels like a modern movie
predator is an incredibly balanced movie
like on an editing side where they have
they do have these long fluid shots and
then you know a little quick cuts here
and there but then long he knows when to
use handhelds like now every action
scene yeah constant handheld the go-to
as always I think this has become a meme
but there's one of the taken movies
where Liam Neeson is trying to jump over
a fence and there's like 75 cuts over a
fence in 20 seconds
yeah and this is a movie where yeah
there's lots of you know lock down shots
lots of slow-moving shots and then to
punctuate the action that's where the
handheld kicks in and a lot of there's a
lot of artistry and not just in the long
shots but you know the the take where it
starts a focus follow away and then you
rack focus to something close you know
like there's a lot of effort put into
these little moments that help build the
tension actually very very heavy real
jungle is cinematically not very
interesting because you can't see
anything we would wind up going through
and trimming out leaves so that you
could see through at some distance I
think that's where John McTiernan kind
of put his stamp on it where he said
we're gonna take our time I love that
that base infiltration sequence where
you know before the action kicks off and
everyone's just kind of being sneaking a
lot of longer shots really really good
craftsmanship and and in that sequence
too when they're sneaking up they
establish I kind of I haven't honestly
don't think I've watched this whole
movie since I was a little kid because I
watched it so much as a little kid I
never needed to see a gun but I kind of
forgot how I know that was sort of gory
but I kind of
how like blunt some of the violence's
and so that sequence when they're
sneaking up we see I think it's then old
Thorson shoot someone in the head and
it's just really like matter-of-fact
like real grounded violence like ooh and
that kind of lets you know like the
danger that they're getting into
showcasing actually I think I think this
is this movie because this is relatively
early in Arnolds career yeah relative to
his entire career I'm ready but this was
the height this is 80s 80s Arnold well I
think I think a lot of this movie
showcases why he succeeded so much as an
actor his expressions are amazing and
you can like he just has really
expressive eyes and you can see that he
was trying to emote and act I think
that's the key he was trying there and
there's I don't think Arnold could have
been a star any other decade or could
have risen to that level of stardom in
any other decade yeah people were
willing to Fort Lee cuz I mean
rewatching this some of his line
delivery you're kind of like oh I may
not as expendable but he has so much
charisma and you can you like him just
because you can tell he is trying the
closest equivalent we have now to like
someone who gets by on just sheer
charisma is the rock the difference beat
weld 1 the rock can actually act and
lets a difference but the other big
difference is that every movie the rock
is in is like complete garbage he does
nothing but crap and people still love
him he seems like a really likable guy
he does and he gets by completing Arnold
not a great actor in lots of really
great movies The Rock everybody loves
him despite the fact that he's a good
actor but he's in terrible movies and
they all take place in the jungle this
is where this movie is where everyone
learned their Arnold Schwarzenegger
impression
the only other addition would come a
Total Recall which is just the Arnold's
agony noises
Wow
I think you know because of Arnold's
expressiveness in fact all the actors
expressiveness and just the the clever
way it's shot I think a lot of predator
can be watched without any sound and you
will understand exactly what is going on
you miss out on some great one-liners
but ya know it's and like I mentioned
earlier the way the movie kind of strips
down as it goes along like it strips out
the action movie one-liners it strips
out the characters as it goes along and
then by the end when I say watch this
movie a lot as a kid what I should say
is I watched the last half hour a lot as
a kid when it's just Arnold versus
Predator and there's hardly any dialogue
it's just so like primal and simple and
that's that like so as the movie goes
along everything just gets stripped away
until that's all you're left with is two
things in the jungle fighting each other
not great dude two two slabs of steak
just put it but it's also like clever
and you understand what's going on you
know Arnold building is Boy Scout traps
and the Predators doing his predator
things like now get it you get it all
and there's no dialogue and I think I
think that it reminds me a lot of there
was a series of comic books kind of in
the in the early 2000s called nuff said
and it was basically an experiment and
exercise in drawing comics where it like
can we make an entire comic book with no
dialogue like just through art alone and
they were pretty they were pretty neat
and it reminded me a lot of that works
just like I I would guess that you could
strip away every element of dialogue and
understand exactly what is happening in
predator well that's they never over
explained the predator which is great
which we should talk I guess now we
should talk about the predator yes one
of the best movie monsters ever but yeah
you you you get to understand what's
going on with them without a lot of over
explanation there isn't like that scene
or they where our heroes kind of stumble
upon I don't know some piece of
exposition or a character that knows
what's going on that explains everything
about the predator to them right but you
get it like the predator is just here to
hunt which is so great
he's got technology so he's a little
futuristic he he has his rituals you
know like there's so many great little
pieces
of like predator lore every P every ever
that's what I love about the predator
not only the design but every piece of
tech II has everything about him is so
clearly thought-out yeah and everything
is awesome knowing that like that
shoulder cannon you know whether that
that sequence went Arnold is is hiding
and you see the shoulder cannon
perfectly follow where he's looking and
he's like ah yeah I get it wouldn't know
no exposition like the fact that all
we've seen the predator do is like
disembowel and skinned people but then
when when billy challenges him to a duel
the predator removes his skull and the
spine because that was that was more of
a challenge not just skinning he's he's
earned a trophy in combat you're like oh
we didn't even get to see the fight but
you get like their thing is if we don't
see the fight because he Billy's given
like a more dignified death all the
other characters the Predators
dispatches them and we see it in gory
detail yeah but Billy's a little more
advanced than that well because bit you
know Billy puts it Billy understands
what's happening even though as the
audience we don't necessarily understand
what's happening Billy gets it and he's
ready for you know one-to-one combat
losses of course Wow
but but then he gets he earns you know
the predator earns his trophy and just
like little pieces of lore that are
never like there's there's never like
the hologram yeah going like let me tell
you about the predator yeah another
another creature from space that the our
characters run into that explains it all
to them and they do a good job I know
some people don't like predator 2 but
they do a good job on like subtly
expanding on that stuff in the second
movie zoo like some of this a little bit
in the first one but we see a little bit
more of like the Predators technology as
far as like medical like it's like
fixing itself if it hasn't wound sure
and at the end danny glover kills one of
the predators so they give it they give
him like a gun like his trophy for
killing a predator right also it shows
like oh the predators have been coming
to Earth for a long fucking time that's
a little little things like that they
like they never over explain it and the
design the great late great Stan Winston
predator design the little vagina mouth
with the dreadlocks well you know the
vagina mount that wasn't Stan Winston no
according to the according to the rumors
according to Stan Winston himself in
fact Stan Winston was was contacted to
you know make the predator after they
had already failed to make their own
predator oh yeah I guess we should talk
about that a bit too the goofy bug
monster yeah
which famously was originally cast
jean-claude Van Damme as the predator I
I don't know if this is completely true
I really hope it is but they were
filming for the the predators like
cloaking vision they had this completely
red suit because they needed something
that they could kion the jungle yeah so
it couldn't be blue and it couldn't be
green cuz it's the sky in the trees so I
had this like red suit in the shape of
the predator and supposedly jean-claude
Van Damme was uncomfortable because he
thought that was the monster I really
hope that's true because that's amazing
that's I've also heard that he didn't
like that you didn't see him
well that moved that would make sense
that he might would be more true but I
mean it looked like something straight
out of was that movie with the meet the
Andersons
where they were big big what do you call
praying mantis monsters Oh meet the
Apple gates the Apple game I can't
believe you remember that movie of
course
it looked like a big dumb praying mantis
yeah and like I said it's all like and
it's not even read it's like pinky
salmon II read it's it looks it looks
like a muppet it looks like a joke and
they knew right away that they needed
something better yeah so well you need
something and this is a lot of movies
like when they have a monster sometimes
it can be distracting when it just looks
like a person in a suit like some some
shots an alien where it's clearly got
like most of the way that movie shot is
like brilliant and perfect but yeah
there's some parts where you can tell
it's a person but that works for
predator because it's like oh that might
be why he likes to come down to earth
and hunt because it's something that's
similar to him yeah yeah it completely
makes sense in that context so so after
their first failure at the predator
because Arnold was good friends with
Stan Winston after the Terminator Arnold
apparently called up his buddy and said
can you make us a better monster and the
story goes according to Stan Winston
that he was on a plane with James
Cameron and you know sketching up the
the dreadlock mask monster that we know
and James
it was James Cameron's idea to give him
the mandible mouth okay according to the
legend James Cameron wanted more
horrific vagina monsters I don't know
what James Cameron has against vaginas
but well as I say there's probably a way
you could look at this movie as being
like the most misogynistic movie ever
made because you have all the manliest
man ever being destroyed by a vagina you
gotta drop a tree trunk on that vagina
Oh tree trunk you got to drop a log on a
nice hard long yeah yeah oh my god
and the person who talks about vaginas
is the first on camera killed the
predator
pussy chase you got it we got it we got
it we got it we got a thesis now the
unintended misogyny of predator that's
the clickbait title of this video
they're you by the way oh it's no not
unintended you have to make it if it's a
clickbait title you have to make it
sound like that was their secret that
hidden the hiddens misogyny of a
predator that's it no III know I think
this movie is incredibly it's that kind
of masculinity that I think defined like
our parents generation well just like
the only thing that matters is muscles
you had Arnold yet Stallone and then a
little bit later jean-claude van damme -
it slightly to a much lesser extent
Dolph Lundgren
yeah oh no and just everybody like and
and just the way fucking the opening
scene of this movie is just two muscles
seeing which muscle can be muscle ear I
know that's a super memed shot that's
but it's it's it's hilarious and I think
unlike a lot of action movies from that
time it's self-aware hilarious like I
feel like that shot is a wink to the
audience like we know what we're doing
but like it's just everything Arnold in
this movie is an excuse to show off his
muscles yeah like you know there's one
sequence where he is kind of our Billy
Billy are our tracker is really spooked
and Arnold is kind of walking up slowly
to him and he's holding his gun in a way
that no human being would ever hold a
big rifle yeah but it but it's showing
off his biceps and that's all that
matters as he's walking and just showing
off his muscles yeah every time he does
like a commando signals it's just muscle
yeah beautiful it's beautiful well and
you know like it's like that the
handshake scene it's a wink nod to the
audience I'm sure but it's also a bit of
characterization between the two of them
oh yeah I know weird macho man we like
to goof around the power structure yeah
there's some art in the muscle look the
rendezvous is 10 to 12 miles away from
me you think the choppers gonna wait
bill
we make a stand now where there would be
nobody left to go to the choppa well
there's this great thing that the movie
does usually in like a movie where you
have characters in a situation where
they're their lives are at stake like a
especially like a slasher movie which is
sort of a slasher movie it's it's all
about the characters trying to figure
out just how to get out of the situation
alive and I love in this movie they
don't they don't do that they say let's
just stay here until we kill this
fucking thing we can kill it for for how
like you know big and dumb they all are
you're like oh no these are professional
soldiers these are the best of the best
they're not just gonna get to the choppa
they're not gonna run away all right
well wait wouldn't when is this
well that's after the that's after the
deforestation where they kill the forest
no it's it's absurd and it's terrifying
that all of these professional soldiers
don't know what they're doing they're
just firing into the neces what they've
been reduced to yeah that's great but
you know just whether this is clever
directing or clever writing you know it
mirrors that the first time where they
they come across the dead bodies it was
a firefight they were shooting in all
directions can't believe that Jim Harper
walked into an ambush I don't believe he
did I can't find a single track they
were shooting in all directions but I
can't find any tracks and it was like oh
that's really weird and then they're
doing the same thing we see their
descent into madness that parallels the
thing the movie the thing because it's
like we see early on they in the thing
Kurt Russell goes to the the camp he
sees everybody's dead and like oh this
is weird and then we see what happens at
that camp essentially happened to the
characters of the thing so it kind of is
similar to that it's it's also it's
funny just because like I think predator
is also kind of like the the
illegitimate father to a lot of movies
that we watch on best of the worst
I wanted to bring that up yeah this
movie inspired an entire generation of
terrible b-movie filmmakers that said
you know Predator Lee just shot in the
woods so he can just do that
I don't mind predator - yeah I like that
it continues the theme of the predator
hunting in super warm locations because
for whatever reason the movie came out
in like 1990 and it takes place in the
far distant future of 1997 I don't know
why they only said in a few years in the
future or in the future at all but it's
like this massive heat wave in LA which
is why it's more baffling an alien
versus Predator that they set it in
Antarctica it's like completely the
opposite of everything that the predator
has been established as a place so
whatever and with that what did you see
alien versus Predator it was a whatever
oh yeah the whole movie was or whatever
they just needed a place like a film in
the studio it's a Newark or whatever
yeah okay I like the contrast of the
first movies all in the jungle the
second movies in the city sure there's
this really clever opening shot where
it's a helicopter shot of the jungle or
what looks like the jungle no we pan
over and realize it's like the hills in
LA and let me see you know downtown LA
it's it's it suffers a bit have you
watched it
Rinat recently I I'm running on fumes as
far as predator 2 is concerned okay it's
it's very like like mean and sweaty
which I kind of like but it's very
easily cartoony direction like the first
movie feels very like grounded and real
yeah and like if this aside from some of
the comical one-liners but it's like if
a predator was you know hunting you in
the jungle it feels like I wasn't
believable and the the second movie is
directed by Stephen Hopkins who did
Nightmare on Elm Street 5 stylish movie
as far as nightmare no street sequels go
but for predator he's lots of like kind
of wide-angle lenses it all looks kind
of silly it doesn't have that sort of
grounded real look at the first movie it
suffers from that the weirdest thing in
it Gary Busey isn't it and there's a
part when they're in like a meatpacking
plant they lure the predator into this
meatpacking plant and there's all these
slabs of cow hanging up and we see
awesome we didn't mention the maybe
didn't have in the first movie but he's
got like this disc he didn't have in the
first it's like this with the razor's
all around it and so he throws that and
it goes flying through and cuts things
and then it cuts through Gary Busey but
all we see because there's things
obscuring the foreground we just see his
legs fall down and all this blood spew
out but the just the legs fall down was
like what happened to the top half of
his bodies was he holding on is it just
floating that was always Mazar to me we
did a commentary track for alien versus
Predator mmm and this was a few years
ago now and I think we even said at some
point in it like none of us have seen
alien vs. predator Requiem maybe we
should watch that at some point still
haven't done it
because why don't care because why
biggest detriment for that for me like
because I heard it was r-rated like his
alien vs. predator was pg-13 so the cows
are rated it's supposed to be really
violent but then why I heard is that
they color graded the movie so dark that
you could barely see what's happening in
it well I guess we'll have to see it now
on the next review
keep it here that'll definitely be the
next review very next review so you'll
definitely watch that film but those two
movies kind of killed the franchise for
a while and then I liked predators it
benefitted from one going into it with
low expectations sure but it also
benefited from keeping it simple which
is what the the the previous two movies
did it's not like because it's always
that that kind of like idea with a
sequel or you have to go bigger and more
elaborate with the plot it didn't really
do that it kept it nice and simple sure
it's it's sort of a soft reboot of the
first movie except now we're on the
aliens home worlds and we're being
hunted on the home world well I know
they do a couple similar things yeah I
haven't seen the movie but I know they
do a couple similar things I know you
know if you look at predator it's kind
of a magnificent seven situation you
know yeah dudes group of dudes each has
their own speciality and I know they did
that with the predator editors yeah not
the predator predator
god damn you sequels just put numbers
put the numbers I never get confused
about what you're talking about when you
say predator to write about predators is
you know a group of people each with a
different skill set and that's that's
fun and there's there's a pardon
predators where we got the predator
fighting down a dude with
samurai sword which is pretty awesome
and it's not treated schlocky blink it's
actually treated like if this guy would
this samurai sword then you know it
takes his culture very seriously if you
had to fight a predator this is what
would happen it's like yeah that's fine
meat I'll put it on my list it's it's
okay it's it's it's the perfect like
Sunday afternoon it's okay movie so and
that's I'm curious about this new one
the Shane Black Thought predator yeah
like what they're gonna do with that
I mean it's Shane black you can't go
wrong yeah the trailers have been really
like underwhelming but I feel like
that's it's hard to make a trailer for a
Shane black movie just because he always
has such a like specific tone that's
hard to capture in a trailer I I'll be
honest I haven't watched any trailer
okay it's probably good a predator movie
that Shane Black's making done yeah
everything's fine
mm-hmm everything's fine fair enough I
do hope though that this is the last
predator movie and and that Shane Black
has a cameo in it as a character who is
the last person to be killed by a
predator cuz then we would have a book
in there you go he's the first on-screen
predator kill and now he's the last that
that would be great and then we can just
be done if the movie makes money it
won't be the end never be the end we'll
get the predator to which is actually
predator 5 whatever what are you guys
doing fucking stop it
put numbers numbers
