Jul 13, 2018
John Carpenter's The Thing
youtube.com/watch?v=wSFXYKl_rf0
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/1017739700696702977
redlettermedia.com/the-thing-review

well I'm joined once again by Colin he
has come back down from Canada to talk
about the thing the classic 2011 film
starring Mary Elizabeth Winstead no I am
of course joking we're actually talking
about john carpenter's classic remake
village of the dams no I actually I
should say that those were all jokes we
are not talking about those we are
talking about John Carpenter's film the
thing from 1982 so with that being said
let's roll a clip of my favorite scene
from the thing
so yeah we're gonna talk about the thing
from an 82 last time you and I were on a
discussion together we talked about
Blade Runner not only did the thing come
out the exact same day as Blade Runner
but it came out exactly 36 years ago to
the day that we are filming this which
we didn't know until today I just found
this I somebody tweeted this morning
it can't be right like oh my god that's
incredible
so that that's like the second or third
time that's happening so fitting yeah I
have no idea yeah this is one of my
favorite movies of all time I would say
this is in my top five it's my favorite
John Carpenter film of all time it's not
my personal favorite junk right okay but
I do think it's his best move you're an
escape for New York man I love Escape
from New York
okay it has flaws it's just I I
personally connected with it a lot yeah
but the thing just sounded like a
technical level of filmmaking level this
is John Carpenter at the top the top of
his game I think this is like yeah from
a technical standpoint from directing
the way it's shot everything is I think
his best film I think there was a
screenplay by bill Lancaster who's Burt
Lancaster son going around and initially
a carpenter didn't want to do it then he
had to be kind of convinced and once he
sort of signed on there was an early in
the development of this I think it was
like late 70s they were trying to make a
thing movie and originally attached was
tobe Hooper really off of yeah hot off
of Texas Chainsaw Massacre oh my god I
went for the same script no no the
script was by Kim Hinkle okay
Texas Chainsaw Massacre with Cody Cooper
so it's a completely different movie but
another attempt to remake the thing yeah
that's funny
well originally started with a 1938
novella a short story by John W Campbell
Jr it's called who goes there and I've
read it and I think the carpenter movie
is a lot closer to that short story than
the 1951 the thing from another world
which was kind of like a corny 1950s
monster movie look at me know what I'm
trying to tell you I'm not your enemy
I'm a scientist I'm a scientist who's
trying
it's like a big Frankenstein yes yeah I
think it's like James Arness and like I
kind of I think he was like a vegetable
creature or something like that yeah and
he's the sort of wandering around
killing people then they just
electrocuted at the end so I think I
read the short story that is it's very
similar to the movie so I think he kind
of went back to the to the source well
yeah his John Carpenter's The Thing is
one of those movies when people complain
about remakes and how bad remakes are
people always say well there are good
remake yeah and then you say what are
they and they say the thing and you say
what else and they say all right yeah
and they say what else and they say
invasion of the Body Snatchers which one
yeah 25 yeah this is the kind of remake
you need to do you know if you're going
to because I know John Carpenter was a
huge fan of the the 1951 so much so he
had a cameo by it and the original
Halloween yeah there you go
so he's obviously a big fan but this is
the way to do a remake where you kind of
you know look at the original go back to
the source and do something completely
different
yeah and improve on it you don't want to
remake you know who would who would want
to remake a good movie like John
Carpenter's The Thing
that's not a remake that's a prequel
even though it has the exact same beats
yeah and everything is exactly the same
some scenes are complete ripoffs like
okay well good look into that we'll get
into that but I guess real quick the
basic premise of the movie there's this
group of American researchers so it's
kind of a mix of characters just like
the blue-collar guys and I think like
biology biologists and geologists you
got it yeah you got a doctor you got
Wilford Brimley who's like the head
biologist and you know so there are kind
of like the the nerdy side and then
there's the blue-collar guys like childs
Keith David Mack what's the flamethrower
Mack what's the what that's what he said
now move is this his first movie no it's
not I looked it up his first movie was
an uncredited extra in a disco Godfather
the real
so they're all up in Antarctica in this
research facilities hanging out just
hanging out in Cheshire firstly I'd am
like a winner playing computer chess
yeah the the only female character of
the movie is a cameo by Adrienne Barbeau
oh yeah gets interrupted when a dog
shows up from a nearby Norwegian
research facility Norwegians are
shooting at the dog we don't know why we
don't know what's happening
turns out the dog is an alien from outer
space mm-hmm that can transform into
anything and replicate anything like a
shape-shifter can sort of take the form
of humans or whatever yeah and it's so
slowly over time everybody starts to get
paranoid not know who's actually
themselves and who's the thing and
everybody just gets exhausted and loses
their mind trying to discover yeah who
or if any of them are the thing and and
how to stop it and how to stop it yeah
I've seen the movie a number of times
over the years and I've always really
liked it but yeah the the recent kind of
blu-ray re-released those made me really
appreciate how fantastic this movie
looks oh yeah as far as the lighting
mm-hmm
which is Dean Conde who working with
John Carpenter a lot half of his career
and then left ways to go work with
Spielberg and Zemeckis and eventually
Jurassic Park and back to the future
Jurassic Park back to the future Roger
rabbits oh yeah and then eventually he
did Jack and Jill you can't see can't
win em all
that's the most depressing Hollywood
story in the history yeah I know in the
industry I think he works in commercials
now I think some of the people that I
work with him he well he did go back
because he had Jack and Jill that had to
bend his point where he's like I'm done
yeah I'm literally just pointing lights
at people and washing everything out or
he considered that the kind of
high-water mark of his career and he's
like but he did
and do like kind of like going back to
his roots like a like a low-budget
slasher movie called
the girl and the photographs okay which
isn't a great movie alright Cowpens is
in it but his cinematography is good so
it's fantastic this movie is amazing
yeah thought it's anamorphic it's 239
she opened her aspect-ratio I know other
filmmakers use that but I always think
of it as like the John Carpenter ass but
yeah it's amazing this is he really
knows how to utilize a frame yeah and
you get all those what anamorphic does
is it gives you all those like nice blue
streaky light flares whenever they're
sort of shining the flashlight in the
lens you get these like nice flares and
looks really great
yeah looks very cinematic so yeah
cinematic and Atmospheric and what I
really noticed on this rewatch was the
colors of the movie yeah I never noticed
before really mm-hmm whenever they have
a flare out and you have this like this
contrast between these really deep blues
and yes like almost purple yeah these
highlights of purple that was you know
when I first saw the Blu ray like holy
shit this looks fucking amazing detail
it looks like it could be released
you know today and you'd have no problem
with it and then the opening of course
is where we first hear the music
the theme which can't I sort of credited
to Ennio Morricone but I think the theme
was composed by John Carpenter well
that's the interesting thing about the
score is like yeah Ennio Morricone Zora
thought all these movies and he's
classic composer and that his score for
this movie is just a John Carpenter
score really wait a minute it's just
some toes don't don't but I think what
the situation was is you know yeah he
had a pretty big budget it was like
fifteen million dollars which was pretty
big at the time so I think he felt okay
you couldn't like sorta I would source
the music at least so we could
concentrate on everything else so he got
eighty a Morricone but the movie took a
very long time to finish so I think
Ennio Morricone saw a rough cut of the
movie with like unfinished effects and
stuff and just from the notes that
Carpenter was giving him sort of
composed all this orchestral score and
pieces and gave it to carpenters so
instead like feel free to sort of edit
it and sort of place it around the movie
as you see fit yeah I know I know
carpenter went in with Alan Howarth who
yet worked with a few times to kind of
piece and some other bits here and there
yeah but it was amazing just sort of
watching the blu-ray I don't know if
it's just the audio was a lot better
than the copies that have seen before
but I really I'm like wow I didn't like
remember all this sort of orchestral
yeah music movie it's never like John
Carpenter always refers to his scores as
wallpaper you never wants it to like
inform the scene or kind of manipulate
the scene like some other filmmakers do
or the score is really what drives the
the feeling or the emotion of the scene
yeah I always wants it to just kind of
create an atmosphere and so it's always
in the background it just kind of lulls
you in yeah I guess which sort of like
he couldn't really drive the scene if
he's not composing to the actual movie
you know what I mean so he's sort of
giving him stuff that he can just sort
of pepper in here and there yeah so I
think there ended up being a lot of
unused any Morricone music which
Tarantino actually used in the hateful
eight
what works about this movie is that it's
functions on two like really kind of
like primal fears like isolation and
paranoia yeah that's right the movie is
like yeah and it's of course it's
thought of as a big like practical
effects heavy movie which I'm sure we'll
get into yeah but there are long
stretches of the movie where it's just
these characters I mean it's your not
trust each other and they're just like
kind of losing their mind because
they're in the middle of nowhere and the
dead of winter yeah this is like I think
the definition of a slow burn yeah which
I love I love slow burn movies you're
you're with these characters and these
sort of like dark and cold hallways it
just builds and builds and builds and
it's just amazing you gotta be fucking
kidding what the movie does really well
that the prequel does not which we'll
get into we keep saying we'll get into
the prequel and all we're gonna do is
talk about it for two minutes but I we
don't know who the thing is for most of
the movie we do have that scene where
the dog going down the hallway you go
since you think something is wrong
because something's weird other the way
it's behaving we don't know what yet but
you see it going to a room and we just
see the silhouette of one of the
characters we don't know who it is yeah
that's right yeah and I think carpenter
didn't want anybody to be able to
identify the character by the silhouette
so I don't think that silhouette is
actually played by any of the actors
somebody else so yeah he's sort of like
planting all these little like little
moments first god damn weak a winner
technically it's an ensemble cast but
you know Kurt Russell's sort of I think
emerges as the protagonist as the movie
goes on either when you were four
because he's Kurt Russell yeah exactly
and he has the most amazing beers and a
giant sombrero and a great intro it's
like he's playing this the computer
chess yeah well I'm assuming that
computer cuz I think it says like chess
wizard on the side like that is a
computer that exists solely only for
chess wizard
would that be better just to have like a
chessboard or something would it be
cheaper computers back then this is 82
that thing was probably like $40,000
destroyed it's government property what
if somebody else wanted to play chess
after that I don't know because it's
different messy because it's from outer
space what do you want from me ask him
Kurt Russell and all the John Carpenter
movies easily very differently different
very distinct like obviously an escape
from New York he's kind of doing a Clint
Eastwood yeah about an hour ago small
jet went down inside New York City the
president was on board Big Trouble China
he's doing a John Wayne impression yeah
if you have paid your dues Jack yes sir
the check is in the mail
but but here he's just affable Kurt
Russell he's just cool and badass yeah
and then you played Elvis that's the one
carpenter thing I haven't seen there's a
made-for-tv movie yeah it's really good
it ends on a shot of Elvis on stage and
he freezes as a camera like continues to
move around them so it's like kind of
technically the first bullet time oh the
shot in any movie but it's just
practical it's just Kurt Russell's like
Daisy doodle and it goes on for a long
time so it's like the end of every
episode of police squad yeah that's
right when will people learn that crime
doesn't pay
well I suppose if they do learn we'll be
out of a job
I'm not gonna harm anybody's and there's
nothing wrong with me and if there was
I'm all better now
I'd like to come back inside now you got
my promise Wilford Brimley is in this
movie it was really weird to see without
his mustache it's unnatural
I thought he was the thing through the
whole movie just cuz I was like that's
not really Wilford family but he's great
in it is Blair yeah he's really good
never everybody's good that but then
Richard Mazur is Mark Clark who's kind
of in charge of this group of dog yeah
he's like the dog keepers army yeah he's
really weird too he's like I kind of I
guess he sort of identifies more of the
dogs than he does the people he seems
like very isolated yeah he seems like
very sensitive about the dog he's like a
loner yeah you get that feeling and
that's what's I think important to bring
up is that like one this is a small cast
there's an all-male cast they spend good
portions of the movie where they're all
wearing parkas where it could be which
actually kind of goes into the theme of
not knowing who's really who
but everybody's really well defined
without having to do much just because
they're so well cast
yeah even just like the first couple of
scenes it's like in the intro like from
that kind of shootout and like Gary like
breaks the window and he started
shooting and just like everybody's
interactions and I think they did
rehearsal before this and they kind of
spent a lot of time together so I think
it's like that kind of bonding shows
yeah but it's but it's great because
there's no like extensive exposition or
no really explaining who these people
are but you still get a sense of of
everybody's personality really cool yeah
exactly which is funny because you look
at something else to bring up is you
look at reviews from this movie at the
time not only was this there's plenty of
really great movies like poorly it's
like Blade Runner yeah book but the
difference is Blade Runner got good
reviews right I don't think so oh is it
maybe some oh god cuz I feel like this
movie got like savaged there's lots of
good movies that did poorly at the box
office but this is one that did poorly
at the box office and was critically
pain oh my god which is reading some of
those reviews are just like it's like
criminal or angry how did you get this
so wrong yeah the thing is basically
just a geek show a gross out movie in
which teenagers can dare one another to
the screen John Carpenter's The Thing is
a foolish depressing overproduced movie
that mixes horror with science fiction
to make something that is fine as
neither one thing or the other
instant trash but I what are the common
complaints about the movie was that
there's no characters it's just like a
like a Gore fest
and that's not true there's so much
craft in this movie and there's so many
great performances that really inform
all the characters so specifically if we
pay attention pay attention and I think
I think the gore is just so over the top
that it probably just overshadowed
everything and then the movie comes out
and flops horribly oh my god f initely
the start of John Carpenter is kind of
disillusionment with Hollywood I think
so yeah never recovered for all yeah
because I know this is like he said this
is his favorite movie of all the movies
that he's done you know this could have
been a big thing room had it been a huge
hit I think you know this was like a big
chance for him with like you know a
big-budget no unfortunately flops so you
know yeah people always when they talk
about this movie flop and they always
bring up because this came out in the
summer of 82 which is the summer of
Blade Runner Conan the Barbarian it's
Star Trek - the Wrath of Khan tons of
big movies yeah also the summer of et
which came out a couple weeks earlier
and I think that was the reason that
well that's I I don't know people always
say that like et came out and that was
like a cute little alien and right after
that people don't want to see this ugly
like disgusting idealistic movie was
creepy disgusting alien and it's like I
don't know it's kind of aiming for a
different audience yeah et audience like
I don't know if that's the reason it
flopped I think I might have just been
bad timing a crowded summer with all
these big movies yeah but you think
about the release now this would have
done better I think like you know in
October kind of release it's very odd
when you think about how the release
schedules go now like seeing something
like this in the summer is very weird
yeah and that's why we start talking out
the cast but I wanted to mention Richard
Mazur who's Clark
cuz he's in charge of the dogs and he
kind of Usher's in this
from the Norwegian cam and then the dog
kennel scene like that's where things go
crazy well this sort of like dog sits
down in the middle of the kennel and
Yuki's got like this thousand-yard stare
that's the best performance my aging
acting by a dog it's so incredible it's
you just know something's you know and
the dogs all the other dogs are getting
kind of creeped out by it
which I guess is like you know we got to
talk about Rob butene like this movie is
sort of held as like the holy grail of
practical effects yes I think and they
they are fantastic
yeah and in all its it's a gun going
back to like the cinematography it's a
combination of yeah the effects are all
practical there's like a couple optical
shots throughout the movie but at the
very end yeah there's a matte painting
yeah there's there's I mean this is sort
of like it in every trick in the book
movie there's matte paintings there's
stop-motion which is the weakest part of
the effects
and not just the effects the whole movie
but specifically the especially the
effects is like lots of lots of hard
shadows dark areas just glimmers on
certain aspects of the you know little
shafts of light to see you get an idea
what's happening without it just being
overly lit so it looks like a big rubber
thing but even when it you know in later
scenes like the kind of defibrillation
scene it is better lit stuff like that
but it's still it's very artfully done
and you know especially the kennels see
oh man that's just all and it's sort of
dark and it's just well I don't think I
ever noticed until this blu-ray release
like because the dog this is where it
reveals itself as things it's gonna it's
gonna start incorporating all the other
dogs face opens up like a flower
yeah hours before that like the skull of
the dog head just kind of falls out the
scene is sickening Oh gross and you know
it's like every cut every angle is a
different gag yeah to rig up so it's
like all these shots in combination
together yeah with that lighting like
it's all just like seamless it's
fantastic but Rob butene so we got to
talk about him he was 23 when he did
this movie which is just blows my mind I
can't think of anything I did worthwhile
at 2038 let alone like anything of
anything I've done worthwhile ever but
this pretend well we're on the kennel
scene this was an overwhelming movie for
Rob butene and it became an issue later
in production or in post-production I
should say so he kind of needed help and
he brought on help so Stan Winston
actually helped out on the dog kennel
scene just cuz to sort of take some work
off of Rob Oh teens you know load give
him so it's actually I think the dog
when it sort of comes up and opens its
mouth actually Stan Winston's arm I
don't know if he did the entire sequence
or just sort of helped out here and
there but but yeah it's like I mean in
there are certain parts where like yes
you could tell it's an animatronic thing
it's a rubber thing but like the like it
looks real yeah the lighting helps I
mean it looks like slimy and there's
guys it's like spraying all this jizz
all over the yeah yeah
I'm not like an anti CG person or
whatever you can do amazing things but
like even even if you can do something
more fluid in the CG it's not it doesn't
have that like tangible real just Google
Wallet II where's rice yeah like roast
quality you like you see that there even
if you know it's a puppet or if you know
it's some sort of animatronic thing like
it feels real because you know it was
there yeah and it just sort of keeps
unfolding and all of these new
disgusting disgusting things well that's
the cool thing about the thing is that
you never there's never like a final
form now we're a normal form you know
what the hell we have no it maybe it
doesn't have a normal form yeah it's
just like constantly changing but that
that kind of flower petal thing you're
talking about and it has all the teeth
on it yeah but the individual petals I
didn't know this they're actually dog
tongues oh my god
I never even so disgusting oh wow that
scene and it is like I know the critics
complained that it was too kind of like
ugly and mean spirited yeah I allistic
and it is but yeah it's movie it's not a
good film I mean there are parts that
are like like when there are the dog
kennel scene again yeah it's like they
show up and they start shooting all the
dogs oh yeah oh my gosh but I mean
that's the situation there is a great
that's exactly like you what are you
gonna do yeah you completely understand
the situation there and because that
would lead them to come go to those
extreme measures yeah one shooting the
dogs but then turning on each other as
well yeah Wilfred Brimley is the
smartest character in the movie yeah he
kind of figures it out and I think this
is the only sort of scene that could
well there's like a couple scenes of
like exposition he sort of figures it
out on his is very 1980s computer well I
wanted to mention that because I think I
think I've seen people say that that
that sequence was sort of created in
editing yeah how there was more like
just dialogue and exposition and explain
all this stuff and then they just took
existing shots of Wilfred Brimley at
this computer cuts to the magical
exposition computer program of its sort
of showing yeah how this thing the thing
kind of assimilates and ex
Exe you kinda have to brush off the fact
that whatever that program doesn't
really make any sense
how would that exist that's definitely
not chess wizard the plan that'd be
funny it's like alright we got to like
figure out the assimilation pattern
where's the chest ruin but yeah they
just took like existing footage and then
shot some inserts of the computer
monitor like boom we edit like it's 30
seconds long don't need much yeah well
that that's the thing people like to
kind of analyze or debate is at what
point he's he's infected because by the
end we know he is right but what I love
is that once he kind of runs the
computer program that explains
everything
he just trashes that room goes insane
and it could be taken I think two ways
which is one he doesn't want the the
rest of the people to have communication
with the outside world because he's the
thing and he wants to take them over or
he wants to cut them off so the thing
can't get out yeah I think you see him
later on he sort of cuts the cables in
the helicopters the helicopter yeah the
cat I think that sort of but watching
Wilford Brimley fuck up that room it
wanted to be uh he swings that axe nice
squirt of guy when Kurt Russell rushes
him with the 1000 yeah the ass goes
right through the table I don't know
that seems like a real ax forgot his
insulin medic freaked out yeah but I've
always kind of assumed that he wasn't
the thing at that point because then
because he's freaking out they they lock
him in the shack outside hey I don't
want to stay out here anymore I want to
come back inside and they come to visit
him later and he's like I'm alright I
can come back in but hey I'm in the
foreground as a new listener
he's just gonna take his life at some
point because he's losing his mind out
there I think maybe he had been slowly
infected he just sorta does the autopsy
at the beginning which is another
disgusting scene
oh my god yeah oh yeah we got to talk
about that because that has I don't know
why there aren't more gifts reaction
gifts a little gremlins face from that
scene oh oh it's like somebody farted
and that scene ends multiple scenes on
this movie end on Wilford Brimley making
a face like that
yeah then freeze-frame and fade to black
there's like the support yeah fade to
black
yeah it's just very interesting too
editing technique well yeah the editor
said he kind of got shit for earlier it
was kind of mocked by fellow editors
because they're like nobody uses fade to
black yeah it's it's very old-fashioned
but so was John Carpenter's versus
filmmaking influences go slither the
James Gunn movie slither has lots of
fades to black I don't think it works so
well in this in this oh yeah it's like
this little passage of time and you know
a little chapter kind of lit it adds to
the yeah like we're still here like
everybody in the movie is so exhausted
yeah they start exhausted just cuz
they're in the middle of nowhere and
they're watching the prices right yeah
let's make a deal you know I know how
this one ends and then he throwed like
this thread on top of that yeah then I
mean Kurt Russell it's perfect when he's
got his little tape recorder he's like
everybody's tired nobody trusts anybody
now we're all very tired
that's one comment that I thought was
funny there was you know being savage in
the reviews but the director of the
original of the thing from another world
was just so disgusted with his movie he
says it's just a goddamn like commercial
for J and B which it kind of is I sure
it's probably the worst commercial for J
and B yeah you know her Russell's
drinking he looks pretty cool that's
true and he is the one that survives
yeah maybe the Jane B contributed to
that there you go that's a perfect
commercial it's like Kurt Russell's
Mentos that's J and B you see when a man
bleeds
it's just tissue my blood from one of
you things won't a bag when it's
attacked it'll try and survive
crawl away from the hot needles so there
is one other kind of important set
piscine and that's the blood testing yes
as you were talking about individual
cells its own things yeah Kurt Russell
kind of comes up with his theories like
you know I sort of saw that head running
away and I got the idea that you know
each individual part of it so he's gonna
do this blood test he's gonna tie people
up that he thinks or the thing and then
you know people that he can kind of
trust he's gonna draw blood from
everybody I guess you're okay fantastic
that it's perfectly executed tension yes
so well paced and it's it it goes on
just long enough or even if you've seen
the movie before hmm you kind of it goes
on long enough where you kind of forget
when the scare yeah that's right so when
it does is like it's still effective oh
it's great I thought you'd feel that way
Gary you were the only one that could
have got to that blood will do you last
I always complain about cheap jump
scares in movies I think when I
mentioned jump scares people assume that
I think like all jump scares are created
equal no this is earned you have to earn
a jump so you can use jump scares but it
has to be earned yeah it has to have a
point this isn't like a cat being thrown
at someone exactly just a lot of noise
startles you after moments of silence
and it works so well because this scene
is so kind of like quiet up to that
point and they all die think they all I
kind of want to kill Kurt Russell at
this stage yeah well at one point they
think they think they think he's locked
outside he gets back in yeah so he's you
know doing this test while he's still
got hurt everybody's just lost their bow
my god it's amazing I mean the shot
where the thing you know jumps out of a
petri dish it's shot in a way where it's
like okay that was probably a fake hand
oh yeah was it faking I think but but
what's great is they use that shot
before that in that sequence that exact
same angle so you're custom to seeing it
which makes it even more of a surprise
when something happens cuz you see that
shot and like at least you know me kind
of thinking of like the filmmaker mind
it's like oh that shots that pan might
be fake so something's gonna happen but
then nothing happens and then use that
shot again and nothing happens yeah I
didn't know I looked it up afterwards
and I didn't know as a fake hands
works for me yeah it makes sense
probably a whole underneath
you shoot something over but by using
that shot a few times like it kind of
lulls you in so it you don't notice a
difference like a jump exactly yeah if
that was the first time they cut to that
shot yeah you'd be like well that's an
effect shot yeah
but the fact that it's incorporated
earlier just really sells the whole
thing
so Dean Kennedy gave every character
that was tied down a little little
highlight which is you know very common
in movies
just a little glint a little highlight
that's sort of like you know gives the
gives life to the character to the eyes
the only character that doesn't have an
eye light is Palmer and he's one of the
things so that was like a very subtle
kind of clue if he kind of pick up on it
he has he's like very kind of deep set
black eyes but and then instantly I he's
like splits up it's open just like my
cigar scene is like so chaotic and even
laughs he flings a dummy or not the best
effect of the movie yeah quick that
works
the funny thing I wouldn't the funny
thing was it was like Palmer's sort of
like splits apart and he starts going
crazy and I think McCready kind of
torches him no and then he bursts
through the wall that wall it's like two
inches thing yeah it's this looks like
it's cardboard is like it would be
freezing insulated look this research
facility they put all their money on the
chest Wizards they have a closet full of
chests Wizards they don't have they
don't have the budget for insulation
there's some amazing sequences we kind
of brushed over earlier which the big
one being the defibrillator scene which
is just same with the dog kennel scene
where it's like every shot is a
different effect yeah so it's not just
like you have to create this one gag
it's like an endless sea where there's
glares every shot the effect has to be
able to do something different yeah I'm
talking about jump scares that is
fucking amazing yes so well-executed and
it's crazy there's like one shot it's
like a second lawn where his arms are
ripped off and that wide shot wide shot
he cast a guy who's missing his arms and
put a mask of the actor on him he's just
like one second of film and you don't
notice it if you kind of pause it and
look yeah it kind of doesn't look like
him but yeah I never noticed that until
I kind of read about it but there you go
it's all it's cool trickery yeah and
then just the visual is so bizarre would
like the spider legs come out yeah it's
like almost like before it's like the
dog kennel seeing where it's like before
you can even kind of settle in and kind
of like deal with what you've just seen
there's like some other more disgusting
thing that happens
if I had any complaints about the movie
and it's very minor is that I feel like
the the conclusion is a little weak
the OS when they go to find Blair in the
cabin and then they kind of explore them
yeah they're going I mean that's that
stuff's all fine there's some tension
and stuff but then when we see the full
creature they're kind of like big reveal
I guess it's a big reveal and then it's
just Caruso just kind of blows it up
I mean it kinda works and that it
doesn't go too over-the-top I guess it's
just sort of like a desperation like we
got this dynamite it'll throw that yeah
I don't mind it okay I'll give it a pass
cuz I'm so fucking awesome oh yeah
exactly I'm not then it sort of leads
into you know this awesome awesome
ending with him and Keith David the
Bleak ending which people love to debate
well but it's funny because people
always like try to debate like or find
clues on if yeah the thing or not the
whole point of the ending is doesn't we
don't know and it doesn't matter doesn't
matter yeah that that paranoia is still
there and that that's where we end yeah
again Dean Kennedy sort of came back to
that kind of I highlight clue that he
did in the in the blood test scene and
then he asked carpenters like every
gonna do the same thing and the
carpenter said no don't do it I want it
to be ambiguous yeah yeah people say you
can't see child's breath
yeah just bullshit and can he does he
kind of leans forward and you see it you
see an eye load and both of them you
know it even if you know he was the
thing it would be a perfect copy of him
he would be breathing and you have
breath so that's all bs everybody you
know this and that carpenter said I mean
if you have fun trying to find this
stuff I guess whatever but someone I'm
sure there's theories it kind of defeats
the purpose which is that we don't know
and we're not supposed to know and it
almost doesn't matter because either way
these guys are fucked
wait here for a little while see what
happens i bred some crazy crackpot revue
he's like you know Kurt Russell hands
him the jmb but it's really the gasoline
and you know child's didn't react when
he drank it so that means he's the thing
it's like man no no no no it's so meant
to be ambiguous were not meant to know
neither of them are the thing but that
definitively but also this'll lead into
our discussion of the 2011 film and also
in that scene though at the end this is
how we know that child's is not the
thing because you briefly he has an
earring and you briefly see the earrings
right and as we learn from the prequel I
think they're fillings from someone's
teeth it can clone cells but not
inorganic material it couldn't copy
these so it spit them out so the prequel
angela answered the question of the
original film and then that child is not
the thing did we really need to know
that fucking pretty prequels man I'm
telling you
yeah well this prequel in particular is
2011 it's more remake than anything and
it's just bad thing you call the thing
yeah exactly it is a poor imitation hey
there you go but uh what it really does
is ruin the first half of the original
movie yes the whole thing is the whole
thing and the thing is the the mystery
of like what's happening yeah why are
these Norwegians chasing this dog what's
the deal with this dog when they're
exploring the base you know yeah they
explore the base where the Norwegians
came from you kind of piece it together
in your mind
awesome names of some animal burn the
ice they chopped it up
remember mystery yeah so the prequel if
he watched the prequel before going into
the original film like all that's ruined
I made a horrible mistake
I watched the thing first and then I
watched the prequel second I think you
did the opposite which I did the
opposite I saw the thing back when it's
the prequel back when it first came out
yeah wow this sucks moving on so I
hadn't watched it since but then in
preparation for this I rewatched it and
then I watched the John Carpenter one
right afterwards and it's just yeah it
just completely deflates the first half
of the John Carpenter movie I did the
opposite and I just went to bed angry
it's just it couldn't be more glaringly
obvious I like how bad it is yeah and
then of course very famously all the
effects in it were done practically and
then the producers were like oh this
doesn't look modern enough
yeah there's sort of theories about what
happened I know friends that actually
worked on the CG one of them knew I was
a huge fan at the thing he was working
on the CG and he's like look you know
they're replacing because that was they
were sort of touting it as big return to
sort of practical effects now I've seen
some of them you can find them online a
lot of the behind the scenes and so on
YouTube for whatever reason my friend
said that the producer or the director
probably the producer weren't happy with
how the practical effects came out or
they thought it looked like very dated
movie it was too retro so they made that
come out a few years later or one
would've been okay with that because
yeah there's the new things and they
were saying entering the spirit of the
80s movies yeah so for some reason they
made the decision to replace everything
with with CG it is not good
it's too fluid it looks cartoony
especially in contrast with the first
movie but it's also the thing is willing
to show itself in every possible moment
to give itself away it makes no sense
it's like you know it usually would wait
and the good thing about the carpenter
film is like you rarely ever see the
attacks if it's just a one other person
that it's attacking yeah you would only
see it when it's cornered you know by a
bunch of people and it's trying to
escape but in this movie it's like it
like panics almost so it's out of its
way to attack somebody when somebody
else is present yeah it gives itself
away at any opportunity it's so annoying
and it's like for all these sort of
forensic recreation of what happened at
the Norwegian base like you know here's
how that axe got there and here's how
soon so cut their throat or whatever
like that it's like they ignored
everything else about the carpenter
movie about how to build tension and how
this kind of creature behaved yeah this
very odd it's just like a complete
fundamental misunderstanding of the
original moon absolutely on every single
level yeah and and for you know even
going so far as to call the thing it's
like fuck you yeah the in my eyes that's
the thing with with soft reboots or
prequels or whatever you just call it
the same thing as the original they said
they couldn't come up with a better name
so they that's how they just chose the
thing but that's now like you know the
new Halloween speaking of John Carpenter
yeah I mean that's coming out it's just
Halloween you recognize that name so
that's that's the trends when they do
the the soft reboot of gremlins where
they bring back Billy Peltzer for like
two scenes just to appease the original
fans emmalin the movies is gonna be
called gremlins
it's like these Prometheus movies and
all those things yeah something yeah
that's sort of like the precursor to the
Ridley Scott alien prequel no everything
is we don't want to know what the space
jockey is it's like you know four years
since I saw that movie it kind of have
like this vision in your head of what it
is or where it came from and that's
what's great it opens your imagination
everyone there when they're exploring
the Norwegian camp and you see all this
chaos and you're you're reconstructing
into your head like wow what could have
happened here it's amazing that kind of
mystery is these fucking prequels can
fuck off
it is ruined everything I don't want to
know

