Feb 20, 2018
Star Trek Discovery Season 1
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ri7v-utIcvY
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/965972127533891585
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/10155427660117634
https://www.redlettermedia.com/review/star-trek-discovery-season-1-review

hello and hello to you rich ovens hello
Michael
we're back this is part three of our
special review edition of Star Trek
discovery talk I don't even know what
this is horrible name that's the formal
name this is we've we've met three times
over the season the first season of Star
Trek discovery yeah to check in to talk
and now that season one is concluded we
know exactly what happened and now we
can talk those are facts
yes speculation like I'm looking forward
to see where it's going now we know
where it went and and now we can talk
about it on this episode of review well
rich season one is done and what was the
point of season one I don't know like
the overall point like like let's blow
things up let's have a lot of war let's
have a lot of action and then in the
last ten minutes of the last episode
will will tack on a message that were am
bad we have this this we have many
threads major threads in this storyline
and it's it's a lot to to wrap your
brain around because there's lots of
little things going on
major threads are the Klingon war
yeah
um, Lorca, a secret asshole from the mirror Mirror Universe who got to the the the normal universe
I think they quickly said he flew into a
gas cloud magic happened and I forget
there how he got here
they don't care yeah I know well that's
the thing he got to the regular universe
somehow and and and he spent his whole
time in the normal universe the
cultivating no pun intended the spore
drive yeah project so that he he somehow
knew to go into 58 different spots and
that would open the rift let's let's
let's just let's just rewind a little
bit before I get into that that kind of
specifics alright okay we the opening of
the second half is the mirror universe
story arc captain Burnham welcome back
to the Shinjo made some modifications
replace lateral vector transport systems
it's actually the most fun that the show
was like that for Carter it was great it
was fantastic for partner and just the
general that the concept of this Starfleet ship having to act like evil assholes
that's a beautiful idea
that was fun
yes
yes
Tilly as the the evil hard ask captain
that was fun Tilly turned out to be I
think one of my favorite characters yes
because she was so she's I mean kind of
comic relief almost but she's very
relatable and human
she's like a less socially awkward
Berkeley yeah why don't you bring us all
up to speed on your finding so far
yes I like Tilly and ansaru
even though sorrow isn't like you know
personality overload
he's he's he's the most Star Trek
sorrow grew on me
yeah
he grew on me
when he was first introduced anything that
I, my species senses fear
i thought that was so fucking stupid
but just as a character he grew
on me all season um you look back at the
whole season right yeah and it's like
cramming in a lot of different things we
have this war and then really when you
sit back and you think about it what was
the ultimate point of the mirror
universe it really nothing yeah
yes it was other than just for the fun
of having a fun story arc but now that's
over jumping into the battle of the
binary stars right off the back was kind
of detriments or a bad idea because they
were obviously from a TV show
perspective they want to kick it off
with a bang you have everybody talking
about this big opening I know this but I
think you needed two episodes maybe
three of Captain Georgio and Michael
Burnham and the crew of the Shinjo going
around and doing Star Trek stuff you
know what I mean start him off on cuz
it's like we didn't we never got a sense
of how the crew worked together yeah how
this this Star Trek universe felt like
they got they're doing a science survey
I mean I guess they did one scene where
they went down and they rescued the eggs
yeah you know one yeah it's one scene
but ultimately at the very end they're
like we are we are Starfleet and we are
proud and we're gonna do the right thing
and and and from an outsider's
perspective they never established that
at the beginning handful of scenes at
Starfleet headquarters you know so
what's the business of Starfleet today
well we're going to meet this new
species you know a little plot little
plot yeah it ends next episode oh we're
going to do this and that
BAM you hit him with the war and I think
that's why the the Dominion War in Deep
Space 9 was more impactful because even
though that was a darker series it it
was it was like four seasons in you know
and and then we see like all the horrors
of war and all the terrible things that
like everybody does like Cisco and like
all the things that happened that they
have to do yes you're asking me another
terrorist
I'm just departed if Cisco finds out
what you're doing already knows what
we're doing
we have his full support and that's the
the challenges the ideals of Starfleet
the war part there's even almost a civil
war between the Federation and Starfleet
remember that I assume you'll be
explaining to the public why it's
necessary for Starfleet to seize control
of Earth so that I think that's what was
to a lot of like hardcore Trek fans that
was the turn-off was that like we said
before when it started off it felt like
Starship Troopers where it was like yes
really like kind of dark like fast-paced
violin very militant world
you mentioned Deep Space nine Deep Space
nine the whole Dominion thing war works
me because I think it's specifically the
writers are there examining Star Trek's
ideology they're testing it we had an
agreement
making a new agreement if that program
passes the inspection you walk free but
if there is even the slightest flaw then
I will send you back to that Klingon
prison until darin to take this time
while he executes your discovery I think
they just want an action show are you
saying the the the values and morals
thing felt tacked on at the end oh oh I
think it very much felt tacked on at the
end yes what do you think about Michael
Burnham's ultimate and character arc
this this this is an important part of
discussion because my jaw dropped to the
floor a few times during the final
episode especially when her her loving
mentor CEREC was was all on board for
genocide yeah I went what her initial
mistake was being to spa Koosh going
well the logical thing to do is is to
capture this this bad guy right yeah and
then that will make them look bad so
let's attack
fuck you, I'm taking over the ship
I'm attacking
I'm doing the logical thing to stop this war
really she fucked everything up right and then killed the
guy out of rage and caused this whole
war right yeah and so then we get to the
end and Saric and Cornwell are
suggesting this radical course of action
which is vile they are suggesting to
blow up Kronos yes yes and we'll talk
about that in a minute and then Michael
burns like wait you're gonna blow up
this planet there's like people here
that just like kind of deflates the
entire Vulcan society and all their
logic well because this show doesn't
care about the Vulcans this the show
cares about Michael Burnham who I guess
is supposed to be this amazing character
that we all like and focus only on her
character arc and they don't care if it
makes Starfleet and the Vulcans look
like a bunch of hypocritical assholes
that's true I guess maybe that's true
and I I think ultimately the the
Achilles heel what discovery is the
character of Michael Burnham she that
character never works for me she's in
that in the in the early episodes she's
just arrogant and unlikable and then she
just becomes mopey and blank-faced
and she kind of remains largely just
Michael Burnham yeah was a really good
impression I mean you got to give it to
you she did a couple of things
throughout the season I didn't much care
for the love story between her and man
who was a Klingon yeah that's Tyler well
there's my smoke that's how they're
trying to sell her turn like you know
what no no she she realized she oh she
fell in love with the Klingon Klingons
are people to know we can't blow them up
that's that's the catalyst for her arc
the problem is she's playing it like a
Vulcan and you never really felt that I
mean she's
love she's in love cuz her performance
is just so I'm Michael Burnham hey modes
make me care about you yeah yeah it's
just clearly restraining her emotions a
little because of her upbringing but
yeah that's a detriment to the the drama
in the show I think yeah and then I mean
on top of the love story which could
have been a season arc mm-hmm you have
her and her relationship with Phillip
with George oh yes which is she felt bad
because George Oh died and then she
wants to bring her back by saving the
evil Emperor's she's a psychopath this
is a George OH who was eating her friend
earlier that's a dark little touch I
have a dark sense of humor so I could
appreciate that it's the same problem
that the Orville has we're just the lead
the lead the linchpin is like it's the
weakest part of the series because these
side characters your Tilly your Paul
your sorrow I'm starting to really like
these side characters yeah yeah Admiral
Cornwall yeah it's just kind of a badass
yeah she's and you know what she gets a
pass because every Admiral in Starfleet
is wicked and evil so it's like okay and
Admiral I'm afraid my choice is this I
can't let you start these experiments
again
Admirals always like once you once you a
son from the captaincy to Admiral then
it's like well I'm gonna do dirty shit
to save the Federation now now I'm not
captain I can do I can do nasty the
nasty shit
you don't see anything wrong
what happened to you
I don't like it but I've spent the last
year and a half of my life ordering
young men and young women to die I like
that even less I'm acting on orders from
the Federation Council how can there be
an order to abandon the prime directive
that's that's the running gag in Star
Trek yeah
is that um is that Admirals always have
some kind of dirty secret okay that last
order helmsman 180 degree turn hard
about we're going to attack speaking of
Star Trek cliches you got the evil
Admiral who does sketchy things and no
matter committing a crime mutiny
stealing the starship you know sabotage
whatever as long as you save the day in
the end as long as you save the
Federation it's okay yes or the earth
the Federation whatever the they'll
they'll pin a medal on your chest and
and give you your your rank back because
like the Captain Picard they're like
don't stay away from the Borg battle
Captain Picard I'm about to commit a
direct violation of our orders any of
you who wish to object should do so now
it will be noted in my log that first
contact happened and they time traveled
and saved the planet Earth
no nobody even asked him about it to
help with our orders he didn't get the
little trial like her cat in the white
film Captain Kirk
you're charged of all these fucking crimes
Oh Kirk also got a new ship yeah
I got a ship but because you figured out
that whales needed to talk to a space
sausage your rank is fully reinstated
well technically not fully reinstated he
was an admiral he was reduced in rank
that's captain wanted though this waiver
had been he got everything he wanted in
the end but he deserved it he saved the
earth even though they stole a starship
and blew it up
death to Federation property physical
assault to Starfleet officers creating
and blowing up a planet
you solved our whale problem
everything's okay so so in truth our
truck you may have earth transparent
aluminum technology a hundred years
before they should have had it violated
the prime directive
the temporal prime directive yes yes
that's fine we didn't we didn't talk
about we didn't talk about ash Tyler
much doesn't much to talk about they
turned him into a Klingon or they turned
to Klingon into him or they merged them
both I'm not I'm not sure what the fuck
happened there that's a very good
question
um they took Volk and turned him into
ash Tyler I think ash Tyler had died
okay and they did some kind of memory
graft into like remember she had those
gloves on and she was doing a thing and
then they like did surgery on his head
like they're just taking parts of volcán
integrating them into ash to make it
like I think Volta T VOC that they're
like your limbs have been cut and
shortened your fingers have been sawed
down I think they took VOC and and made
him look like a human and implanted his
brain with with memories from ash okay I
mean they did a really good job like
surgery it's all just the DNA well the
doctor did look into it but but they
were so good at it that they they went
in and they surgically altered all of
the DNA this this this warrior race
culture is very different they hate
science that hates science science is
for fools and weaklings use our science
to make the ultimate spy we are most
sophisticated in advanced technology
ever invented in the universe
no let's head butt each other and eat
raw meat
it's true the Klingons are dumb I like
to believe that somewhere like
underground and some some like secret
place they they have like thousands of
just really smart Klingons with like
glasses they're just doing work warrior
guys that kind of looked the other way
like like remember one that one gremlin
got real smart brain yeah the brain Tony
Randall yeah yeah and he's they have
like thousands of Klingons like that oh
I don't mind if you say what what do you
say we work on this new project about
space and do you remember the TNG
episode we're like Beverly Crusher was
renting her little think tank there was
a there was a Klingon scientist who was
like super insecure and traumatized
Jurek was a warp field specialist on the
Klingon homeworld
I don't think Klingons regard scientists
very highly she always seemed a little
defensive somewhere there are Klingons
that do research into all this stuff and
they get absolutely no respect they had
absolutely no respect but they provide
all the warriors with the tools they
need it's a kill and murder and create
mayhem and terror in the universe
Starfleet should be able to wipe the
Klingons out so fucking easily
so fucking easily
it's a collation of some really smart
people who are constantly working on
science the Klingons should never have
gotten into space no no really they
shouldn't know if anybody's gonna
conquer the Federation to be someone
like the Romulans yes larell a holding
the Klingon Empire hostage with an iPad
yeah that's connected to a bomb that was
placed inside their planet by the
Federation look look look look she's
gonna last about 10 minutes I don't care
as the new leader
I don't give a shit
good glad it's over
it fucking ended the dreary joyless
Klingon war and now maybe maybe after
all of the criticisms maybe we'll get
something that feels more like Star Trek
next season
what I need is for all of you Placid
people to finally start listening
the enormous loss of life due to this
war the acts of violence committed
against us are the acts of a foe without
reason without honor
rich went when when they said Admiral
Cornwell is sending this evil space
space witch down to a planet with
mysterious device and they're looking
for volcano holds ah the first thing I
thought was oh they're gonna throw some
kind of bomb down there they're reading
night all the volcanoes and Michael
Burns what is he what are they up to
come on what do you think they're up to
they want to blow the fucking planet up
that was the big one yesterday the
biggest non twist of all time was that
that when that was revealed to be a bomb
yeah like till he opened the case like
did you know no we were looking to throw
this thing down a volcano hole they kept
saying they're inactive it's gonna it's
gonna map the volcanoes so we can figure
out a strategy you know the discovery
which is supposedly already in a cave on
Kronos could probably do the same thing
with its powerful sensors we're gonna do
it with this suitcase bomb I mean a
drone it's all true
I'd be more annoyed that Starfleet was
done with this plant but I never
remembered this isn't Star Trek this is
space adventure show and space yeah well
it is it is disconcerting that the
Starfleet was down with this plan
he will triumph who knows when to fight
and when not to fight
remember in TNG when Ryker had that
little test on the planet of the
Ancients with the he was fighting the
Ferengi he said no we will treat our
enemies well even though it might risk
our own survival but that's price of our
ideals
I guess let's talk about the elephant in
the room okay go ahead at the very end
of the first season they get a distress
call and I was I don't know like it's a
spits the Federation ship us us you know
that and then they're like NC c-17 you
know when you just saw four blank
numbers spots that it was gonna be 1701
yeah when they said they were getting a
distress signal I was like ah I thought
it was gonna be like um like we're
getting a distress signal
oh it's time to begin our next journey
we they run into I mean ten years
earlier the the the USS Enterprise 1701
not a the classic TOS ship commanded by
Christopher Pike and then science
officer Spock and first officer lady oh
yeah major Barrett major Barrett but I
forget our character name I do some that
one else just like aged yeah and so here
comes the ship and then they show it and
they kept in in Cannon and continuity
when they had Constitution class ships
in next gen Constitution class
hi Deep Space nine
in enterprise yeah and it looked just
like it but then now it's like kind of
looks like it's a little different
and I'm like no what are they gonna how
are they going to show the bridge how
are they gonna is it gonna look like a
space bridge from the future like yes it
will and I don't give a shit of course
they're gonna change it they're not
gonna have it look like the 60 set you
know that this is the kind of thing I don't give a fuck about
I will critique the design though
that fucking original enterprise
what stands out about that
ship is just how sleek and simplistic
and and elegant it is it's a it's just swoops
and they just put windows and shit all over it
it just fucking ruins the look
but yeah they kind of it's kind of
a mix between the two types of ships
yeah I mean it's like okay fine if you
have a great story for season 2 bring in
pike but I mean they went that whole
season without fanservice and then in
the last like 10 seconds even the end
credits they played the 60s music I know
why because they want you to tune in
next season and they want you to keep
paying for CBS all access I'm starting
to i'm rewatching Deep Space 9 again
right and I remember the very first time
I watched Deep Space 9 when it first
came out and I was like what's going on
like this is this is really weird
there's all these strange people I don't
know
there's this man who looks like a ghost
who's made of liquid there's this very
angry but Joran lady there's garbage
everywhere Cisco is like mad he's bitter
he doesn't want to be in Starfleet
he's like I'm thinking about going into
the civilian service fucks Starfleet you
know it killed my wife you killed my
wife you prick and then the enterprise I
remember the arm cries leaving and I was
like don't go people don't leave me with
them leaving me with strangers you're
like like a kid be like your mother
dropped you off at kindergarten for the
first time yes
come back warm comfy enterprise with
your bright lights and your holodecks
and that there's garbage everywhere why
hasn't anybody cleaned this up
Jake Sisko doesn't have a bed dad there
is nothing to sleep on in there except
for a cushion on the floor but but they
had their like by TNG's done saddle up
get involved in this now you know only
when they brought Thomas Riker back in
really and I think they had an episode
with eventual Oh Worf eventually they
were on their they're on their or their
their own show at that point they
they're they didn't need war it was just
like Michael dorans free everything
crossed over at some point you know
Spock the unification stuff yeah Scotty
episode I think there is a Bashir data
crossover at some point so there is
always a little bleed over here and fine
well it could just be another because
they like arcs it could just be a
four-episode story I don't know I guess
it just felt like TOS now is is feeling
like 80 eighties to me and star
destroyers and Death Star's you know
what I mean where it's like remember
this remember this yes I mean it's felt
like that since 2009 where it's Spock
Kirk remember that I remember it's like
I want discovery completely free and
clear of that they mentioned they
mentioned Jonathan Archer at one point
that's fine but just do your own thing
too bad Mike get ready for Spock as the
new captain of the discovery and he's
gonna fuck up and Michael Burnham is
gonna be all smarter than Spock and then
Spock is gonna get demoted back down to
commander or step down and then that's
gonna be their their their reason to
give Michael Burnham the captaincy well
they know they were going to volcán to
get their captain they're going to a
place to get their captain and they
caught a distress so it's true so I
don't think it will be the captain you
might be right about that I think
they're gonna I think they're gonna go
off course in a plot thread before they
get their new captain
let's give him a little taste of what's
Discovery's capable of lorca tell us
about Lorca Lorca is the the evil
captain well here's the the morally gray
captain he is harsh he wants to blow shit up
he you know Lea reminds me of I
know who you're gonna say you know
exactly who I'm gonna say yeah
when Picard got captured by the
Cardassians and saw the four lights a
captain hard-ass took over the
enterprise and he wasn't like a card at
all he was kind of her she had his own
ways he didn't like Riker but he still
got the job done and he was a good
character that he was - for a few
minutes then go in and tell him that
you've convinced me to meet with him one
more time tell him I'm a loose cannon
and that he needs to be more reasonable
because I'm such an unreasonable man
Lamech will want to bring his own aides
on board pretend to be worried that I'll
of check and then give grudging
permission for two aides no more I
understood that was the beautiful
episode of TNG that just subverted like
the evil Admiral Trump liked the new
authority figure from Starfleet they're
evil he comes in you think that's what
they're doing but no he's just right
yeah yeah he just had a different way of
commanding yeah he just he didn't tell
everybody what he was doing he made he
just wanted people to follow his orders
and and he was effective and it was odd
to see that yeah and so he's a memorable
and Lorca was the same way yeah they
they find the diplomacy missions kind of
boring and then when it comes to war
they're like all right let's do this
thing
like nah and so Lorca felt like that at
first
yeah before before the twist I like the
whole PTSD angle you know where you know
he was wounded by the Klingons his ship
got blown up his eyes were injured and
he had it out for them and he was hiding
it the lining Wow
a recent battle injury it's a ton of
wool this whole story takes place the
time wore on people reveal themselves
under that kind of duress I like to
think it makes me mysterious but then we
discover he's doing science experiments
in his basement because he's an evil
mirror universe duplicate I as fun as
the mirror universe storyline was it
kind of just destroyed work up as a
character is what he was one of the best
parts about the show but now he's just
gone I guess yeah yeah and I like that
actor a lot to don't recognize it
they'll bring him back it won't be it
won't be the same Lorca it'll be the
original work oh I don't throw them you
don't think they're gonna do that it's a
speculation but I don't think they will
oh god I don't know what happened to the
good work they said they say he died
right actually the reason I think they
might bring him back is because they
didn't say he died animal Cornwall's got
aligned like well there's no way one of
our people would survive on their own in
the mirror in universe yeah
so they imply he's somewhere alive in
there they think he's dead but he could
show up at any moment
right but he's got to get out of there
yeah speaking of Mira Mira well back on
that topic I I think I noticed what may
have been a mistake our oversight I
wanted to talk about
commander Landry okay I don't know if
you remember her my name is commander
I'm chief of security here see we're
unloading all kinds of garbage today
that was Lorca's right hand lady oh yeah
she won the original security officer
yeah she went down into his space lair
and she was mean and kind of evil she
wanted to let the tardigrade she was
like we got to find out why it's so
violent I got God and and then she ended
up getting mauled to death by it and and
him and her were like like winking at
each other and all that and then we go
to the mirror Mirror Universe and there
she is and she's evil she's one of those
unfortunate people who's like evil and
both that's just how I took it or maybe
she's just slightly less evil and it's
just a grade I mean I guess everyone in
the real universe aren't necessarily
good right oh yeah are you annoyed I'm
annoyed that they have the force now
that they have this fungus that connects
all life in the universe and your soul
goes into the fungus when you die one
can argue that that might not have been
reality a hallucination you okay it's
possible like like that's what Stamets
was imagining him to say kind of thing
I'm just gonna be annoyed of Star Trek
has forced ghosts now if dr. hugh comes
back in impulse damn its waking dreams
or yeah in a spiritual forum I'm part of
the mycelial Network any kind of phases
in and out it's where you go and you die
then yeah they're gonna do it my serial
network it's a force that connects all
life in the universe Mike well that's so
that's another question too and sees it
- are they gonna continue flying around
with the Spore drop it find some way to
get rid of the spore driver I don't they
don't really give a shit about
continuity I guess ultimately but
obviously this there is no spore drive
beyond it's it's never even fucking
mentioned you think you think Voyager
would have brought it up yeah hey you
know they did this thing a hundred years
ago
you're the spore drive that was super
useful for
getting across the galaxy gentle
Janeway's back on earth and she's a sign
she's reading this life story
why didn't anybody bring this fucking
thing up I really enjoyed the Klingon
sleeze planet I guess it was Chronos all
on us but they go to like a sleazy City
I thought that was fun a splash of moss
eisely
yes yes a little Star Wars a little Star
Wars until he smoking drugs with fucking Clint Howard
yeah
uh, the baby from from
from the original series
from, uh, fucking korbinite maneuver right
i don't even know
he's three years old he still looks like
Clint Howard I know I know he is an ugly
ugly man but god bless him and really
like the Klingon war wasn't over overly
done but I was like that last episode
that it really kind of like we got to
wrap everything up yes I'm glad it's
over
yeah complain no it's good that it ended
and didn't drag out in the season two I
was expecting I was expecting a retcon
of the entire war I don't know if that
might have been too crazy because they
used the spore drive when they got back
to the regular universe and they
accidentally jumped nine months in the
future so I figured Stamets which he
really didn't do anything
in the final episode I figured he would
be like I can figure out how to make us
go nine months back oh yeah yeah I was
waiting for that too and then I was like
okay and then Michael Brown's like okay
now I can stop myself for making the
stupidest decision ever you know you
sent me a text cuz you'd seen it before
you saw that last episode before I did
you said that was stupid I was expecting
that I was fully expecting the time try
able to just completely wipe out
everything that happened this is because
essentially they're like the entire
Federation has been defeated and then
like oh this is some doomsday stuff this
is some yesterday's enterprise stuff
where we can fix this with space we can
fix this with time travel right it's
like if yesterday's enterprise Star Trek
just continued on from that Federation
is gonna be dead in six months yeah you
know that gives him a reason to build a
whole fleet of Constitution class
starships right cuz everything's blowed
up but yeah and I really pictured
Michelle Yeoh aka Phillip was your show
and evil Empress having having a fight
and then the good Giorgio's kills the
bad one okay and then she's back well I
think you'd find out pretty quickly when
one starts eating Saru like looking back
at it it's it's like this kaleidoscope
of stuff that I thought was it was
really good or really bad and really off
but also really on I mean you know do
you have that same kind of feeling where
it's like it's like they cram so much
like if you look back at next gen Season
one ya know these like simple little
stories and nothing like major happens
nothing major happens in next gen till
season three four you know same with
Deep Space nine it's just like it feels
like we had war we had mirror universe
we had like there were very few away
missions - mm-hmm and it wasn't like a
lot of problem-solving it was it was
very almost no problem solving a very
high concept high drama even even when
the show works like like the mirror
universe stuff it doesn't work like Star
Trek normally works where it's people
figuring stuff out people talking their
problems out it worked like what it
worked it worked like a good action
adventure show yeah like the good
episodes felt like they could be
Farscape episodes and
I think you've ever watched much farce
game no no no that's a really fun show
about space fugitives who run around and
they get into adventures okay okay some
fun action but it doesn't feel like Star
Trek okay discovery for me is like it's
constantly just well maybe it'll get
better
well maybe I'll keep watching maybe I'll
watch more I will maybe I'll watch more
I'm always on the verge of not giving a shit
and just turning it off it started
to grow on me a little more
I don't even view it as a Star Trek show
really anymore I view it as just an
episodic drama it's not Star Trek it is
an action-adventure show it's just it's
not like the best one ever but it's it's
passable it's a passable
action-adventure show with spaceships
and laser guns
I think for television it's it's quite
well done and the visual effects and the
style and the art and all that stuff
okay
Star Trek used to be a set of ideals but
now Star Trek is names you know and
places you know where people can shoot
at each other in those places I know the
mirror universe they're gonna shoot
people there I know
Kono's we're gonna put a bomb in there I
know Starbase Captain Christopher Pike
didn't I joke about them running into
Pike in the last episode and then here
comes a Constitution class ship this is
Captain Christopher Pike of the Starship
Enterprise
don't be insane I just want to see I
just can't wait for the violent shootout
that's gonna happen on es 1701
enterprise oh I have a theory
yeah the 1701 enterprise the bridge is
completely like destroyed because of
some kind of accident or incident and
then that that's gonna say well we're
gonna have to rebuild this whole bridge
no no yes maybe we should look at make
it look like a terrible 1966 I'll tell
you exactly what they're gonna do what's
that right you know one we're gonna see
how Pike gets mauled and then we're
gonna see or hear about Kirk being
appointed the new Captain Pike doesn't
get mauled he gets irradiated I believe
irradiated I think you'll see that and
it'll be just like the ultraviolet
version of whatever they said happened
what's his problem
Commodore inspection tour of a cadet
vessel Oh class J starship one of the
baffle plates ruptured the doctor raised
it depends on how I think the cage took
place like nine years ish before okay
eleven years four months five days and
and so you'd have to go back to
menagerie and kind of like go what like
think of the timeline not that they'll
pay any attention to that this one
brought was it ten years before I think
so yeah seven years four months five
days don't Forge it enough we'll see
maybe we'll see we'll see Pike at mold
doctor raised lots to talk about for
season two eraser Kirk's that thing you
know Kirk and Spock good welcome to the
bridge of the enterprise oh my god what
if Kirk ends up being the new captain of
discovery like they change the timeline
no it's like he oh you think Kirk will
be the new captain but then plans will
change after pipe gets mauled dr. rays
that's not a bad I'm Captain Kirk I'm
taking over the discovery and we're
gonna do in this adventure all season
and then
you know Captain Pike gets irradiated
and turned into a wheelchair man and now
I've got to go command this other ship
then they could have Kirk as the captain
four five six seven eight episodes yeah
yeah
why not
why the fuck not
well I guess we'll just have to wait and
see when season two of Star Trek
Discovery starts up in the fall how does
it feel to have live long enough to see
all of your favorite franchises go down
in flames feels great
