Sep 11, 2018
Star Trek: Galaxy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xe1hKZjCVyM
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/1039680865532555264
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/10155886250307634
https://www.redlettermedia.com/review/star-trek-galaxy-review

hello rich Evans and welcome to review
hello Mike
today on review we're doing gremlins 2
no
we're not
what
we're not
I tricked you
but the poster shows gremlins
oh
you see that
it's a cast portrait of Star Trek The Next Generation
I thought that was a real poster
but apparently it's a digital effect
this is the first review for something that doesn't exist
hit it, johnny
well rich a big news came out recently I think it
happened at the the Star Trek convention
in Las Vegas and in August Patrick
Stewart walked out of the hastily put
together holodeck door okay and came out
on stage and everyone clapped and then
he offered Lee announced that they're
making a Picard TV show jean-luc Picard
is back he's coming back and and there
might be more information on this on the
Internet it might be speculation I don't
know we're going at this cold maybe they
just signed him and then it's now it's
the wide open as to what they're going
to do we don't know we haven't looked
into this at all so I'm sitting there
and I'm thinking Patrick Stewart is
coming back as Picard this is my dream
come true and it's also my worst
nightmare and I'm thinking what are they
gonna do well it's got the Star Trek
name on it so it's probably gonna be
some kind of bland action schlock that's
what I was thinking and then I thought
what would I want to see I just started
typing a bunch of stuff you could call
it a treatment but I just started typing
ideas of what I would want to see in a
Captain Picard TV show and they didn't
really say like you know the rest of the
cast of TNG's coming back it's not like
a because the revival series are big
right so I thought what are they gonna
do so I wrote up a treatment this is a
man who loves Star Trek
for fun and what no hope of him doing
anything with it he writes his own
treatment for the next Star Trek series
oh rich
nerds do this shit all the time
here's my pitch for the Captain Picard
TV show oh I'm sitting on it so the show
would be called Star Trek galaxy the
series would open at the Picard Family
Vineyard the exact same sequence as seen
in all good things the final episode of
Star Trek The Next Generation that's
that's a damn poetic idea you know you
start right word should have ended you
know 30 years ago I like that
Picard would have a beard the same straw
hat dressed exactly the same tending to
the vines in retirement except this time
he no longer has aromatic syndrome maybe
we could have some kind of fun line like
it was cured by some holographic doctor
time wise it roughly matches up 28:25
years which would be neat because both
actors have aged pretty close to how
they look now you're talking about levar
burton and Patrick Stewart of course the
premise would be a little different it
would mix both concepts of a fully
crewed up starship just going about the
day-to-day business of the Federation
morning everyone today with a series or
season long story arc so Geordi LaForge
shows up to talk to now retired Admiral
Picard about reinstating him for a brief
mission the famed USS galaxy the
namesake for the ship class had vanished
at the end of the Dominion War and was
listed m.i.a
has now mysteriously resurfaced
somewhere strange side note I have no
idea what happened to the ship in Canon
currently it's listed as active on the
Star Trek Wikipedia but who cares oh
yeah the ship is crewless and drifting
somewhere near the Gamma Quadrant
possibly near the territory of a new
Federation enemy not that the 30-year
old Federation technology would be much
of a prize to any belligerent race but
the ship might hold some clues to what
happened and maybe even some of the crew
are still on board Geordi along with his
wife dr. Leah Brock
and possibly their children Alondra
Brett and Sydney all mentioned in all
good things are traveling to the
derelict ship to investigate leah was
the designer of the enterprise-d and
Jordy was of course the chief engineer
so they are essentially the experts on
this type of ship LaForge said he would
feel more comfortable if an admiral was
there to oversee the mission as he's not
a fan of the eager reckless young
captain they currently have leading the
mission to recover the ship perhaps he's
also a bit concerned with Picard
maybe he's becoming more withdrawn after
the death of his wife anyway along with
the skeleton crew possibly of Cadets
they investigate this mystery which ends
up having far larger and more dangerous
consequences for the Federation of
course the barely working galaxy-class
ship finds itself in a combat situation
brought on by the young inexperienced
captain which ultimately gets him killed
the card is then forced to take command
of the ship perhaps even the warp drive
is so critically damaged that they can
only travel at impulse through one
dangerous situation after another this
would force Picard to use his
tried-and-true diplomacy and wit to help
them all survive and solve whatever
mystery is at hand as far as fanservice
and callbacks fans love the galaxy-class
ship the main cast would be Picard
LaForge and Brahms along with newcomers
and a skeleton crew the whole mission
would start as a dull recovery operation
but turn into a season-long adventure
with a Starfleet legend Picard we're
talking about the Captain Picard TV show
you have two options here and this is
well this is what got my brain going on
this right yeah because your two options
are this Patrick Stewart is 78 years old
yes option 1 the enterprise X I don't
know is a new super sleek gigantic
battleship yeah we need a captain who
has experience get a 78 year old man you
know what I mean uh-huh the Klingons are
starting another war the world is
we have a full-scale invasion of the
Federation by the Klingons
the Romulans of the Borg and you know
that's that's option one that's what
they're gonna go with what that's what
we're that's nothing we're talking about
we're talking about your fake Picard
show with they're not going to make I
know they're not gonna make it but we we
could dream can't we we did no no no
this is this aw yes we can dream I agree
with you your options are one put him in
the captain's chair and just ignore his
age and have him say fire fire torpedoes
and have an action series option two is
him in a retirement home
mm-hmm taking his pills or him like on
the streets of Paris like sipping coffee
while he reads the newspaper as he
should be in reality I've been away far
too long and you know what else annoys
me too they get the Millennium Falcon
back in numerous incarnations from
brand-new to the old rust bucket by they
you mean Star Wars fans okay we get
discovery a spinning ship that travels
on a network of spores and then we get
the enterprise-e yes which is an ugly
ugly monstrosity fans love the
galaxy-class ship it's it's revered yeah
much as the Constitution class they took
the enterprise-d and they trashed it in
Star Trek generations which I am still
bitter about 25 years later yeah
why can't we get to galaxy-class back
I'm agreeing with you about everything I
like this idea I actually like this idea
you took you get the galaxy class back
but you make it a little bit rundown
it's been beat up oh yeah it's been
through some shit
that's and that's that's the different angle
that of course they won't take they're gonna
want sleek sets you know holographic
projections this discovery looks as TNG
would look 20 years later yeah in my
opinion then you you also get this you
get that ship back but it also doesn't
have the feel the same because at the
time and TNG the the galaxy class
it's a fucking luxury cruise ship but you get
the rundown version of that now so it's
still the same ship but like the inside
it's like beat up wires are hanging down
panels are missing I like that idea
main power is offline all systems are in
standby or emergency mode the clear like
thematic thing you want to do right if
you have the young rookie crew because
the captain is dead and then the veteran
their Picard he's got to be in charge
but he's really old and are these young
kids gonna trust this old man that's
that's that's one of the one of the
selling points of the show yes is
essentially the the USS Galaxy is a
metaphor for Picard himself a relic from
another era what do you do a Geordi well
here's the thing you want an ensemble
cast yeah you have Geordi and you have
his wife and you have kids they bring
along their kids because really they're
there and it doesn't really say how old
they are but I'm gonna imagine they're
maybe one could be in in the surface I
that's fine and two or maybe a little
bit younger well they're not so little
anymore
Brett is applying to Starfleet Academy
next year you know you have you have a
whole bunch of options for the kids one
one one wants to go and be an artist or
something and and so you have a whole
family dynamic that you could have a
bunch of stories with in that regard and
maybe dr. Leah Brahms has no interest in
going on this mission
but Geordi really wants to help his old
friend Captain Picard but my only
question is why aren't the young
experienced crew looking up to Geordi
for what to do because he's he's older
but he's not so old that all he's
grandpa
because maybe Geordi just doesn't
Jordi's never had the the command bug
you know he's an engineer this is
captain the forge of the starship
challenger I mean I know they show him
as a captain in Star Trek Voyager I'm
okay with that he does actually command
a galaxy-class ship in Star Trek Voyager
just an alternate timeline I it's very
possible he settled down him and his
wife run an engineering school mm-hmm
you know something somewhere in the
world you know she's just been made
director for the days to Institute and
he has no interest in space exploration
anymore or moving up the ranks in
command they threw him in that Star Trek
Voyager episode as a captain because I
think he directed that episode but we're
gonna we're gonna remove that from Canon
okay okay if you're talking about Riker
yes they would look to Riker majority
and his wife are just going to be sort
of like civilians on this trip which is
why they brought the initial commanding
officer mm-hmm who who is like I want
nothing to do with this I wanna I also
he's a younger guy kind of like the
situation in generations when it starts
when you have Cameron from Ferris
Bueller's Day Off I think you're gonna
kill him off you may as well make a mr.
adult man in charge today he's dead and
it doesn't really matter
sure yeah but but the underlying reason
is not just like the cards experience
and all that is that maybe there's some
personal stuff going on with Picard you
mentioned revisiting aromatic syndrome I
meant I mentioned something more
personal like the death of his wife you
could even say yes crusher who passed
away and he's sort of withdrawn and
Jory's worried about him and he thinks
getting mountain to space might help you
know revive him a little yeah his zest
for life again because he's only 78 and
in Star Trek years he's got another 30
or 40 left
Rober bones lived to a hundred and
twenty eight something like that
137 years after all according to Starfleet records
we didn't see him die
he might still be around for all we fucking know
what's so damn troublesome about not having died
so after the USS destroyer gets blowed
up they all have to be on the galaxy I
guess you have to have them on like the
new slick ship at first
everything's modern and super high-tech
this ship can do anything then that has
to get blown up and then like the
survivors the skeleton crew the younger
kids and Picard
they were like on the Galaxy at the time
the disaster happened
we'vewe've the only ship we've got
available to us we made it here we've
got to get out of this old broken-down
galaxy-class ship what is the premise if
the idea is to find the galaxy and get
on it you don't want them to get stuck
like oh we're stuck in the Gamma
Quadrant on the USS Galaxy we've got to
take it back to the the Alpha Quadrant
to the Federation because then you have
the same premises Voyager yeah and then
you have the logic of well if they found
the ship you know just have a bunch of
other ships warp there and tow it back
mission over you need some sort of thing
that keeps them on board it and keeps
other people away from it but also
allows you to do standalone episodes and
adventures and so so that's really the
tough part is is why what is the logic
of keeping them all on the ship as this
crew Voyager it's obvious in the
timeline what is going on in Star Trek
the last thing that we saw in the Star
Trek online game that sorry yes that's
that's a good note your your bizarre
outburst there brought up a good point
there's canon uh-huh there's probably
been a hundred books written Captain
Picard enduring the Dominion war captain
but God after the Dominion law the Star
Trek online game numerous things that
probably may or may not be considered
Canon some things are paramount
some things are CBS don't know all I
know is the last time I'm sorry Captain
Picard is at the end of Star Trek
nemesis well he was super depressed and
everyone was super depressed and that's
how they ended Star Trek The Next
Generation with everybody depressed
totally better than all good things I
should have done this
you were always welcome
and the sky is a limit
the shins on one of Tom Hardy's greatest
performance shins on betrayed everybody
and went insane and then the Romulans
teamed up with Star Trek Enterprise II
and they blew it up shins on and and the
Romulan lady said perhaps Captain Picard
this is a new day between the Federation
and the Romulans so you left with a
glimmer of hope that perhaps the
Romulans won't be so adversarial in in
the near future
but Mike we learned in Star Trek 2009
written by Alex Kurtzman I had to
extract the red matter and shoot it into
the supernova that a supernova
apparently blew up the entire Romulan
Empire which presumably spanned multiple
star systems that black eyes forever
there on the prime timeline I'm going to
ignore the wind ignoring all that it
seemed like the entirety of the Alpha
Quadrant towards the ending of Deep
Space nine all got together and said
let's work together and stop the fucking Dominion
so to me that would seem like perhaps we had a nice span of a few decades of galactic peace
because you need here's there's the one thing that
isn't clearly defined here the season
long arc this is important I'm curious
what you've got I'm thinking I mean it's
all very vague right now oh yeah
thinking like you have this old ship
right
no more galaxies classes exist this ship
is unique and perhaps it went somewhere
like kind of like what's that movie
event horizon yeah it went somewhere bad
and it came back almost like a Trojan
horse like like like the Defiant from
the original series I'm just coming up
with a set of nowhere every every now
and then Star Trek mentions like
civilizations that used to exist like
thirty thousand years ago maybe you got
one of those civilizations that got
themself caught in some kind of time
anomaly or maybe they were trapped by
the other civilizations thirty thousand
years ago in order to stop them by
capturing them in some kind of time
anomaly but now thirty thousand years
later that's starting to break down
every now and then the hold whatever
pocket dimension they're stuck in opens
up and that's how the galaxy got stuck
in there in the first place and but
that's that's breaking down these things
are starting to get loose right and so
then you can you can have the galaxy
kind of like lost within these time
anomalies and that's why they can't just
call for backup they're popping in and
out all over the place maybe trying to
find their way back but you can have
them going to different places and times
and that's when you can get different
adventures you can throw in an episode
if they're popping around different
times where we see the Galen planted
before it gets destroyed and Carr gets
to visit that planet that'd be neat okay
so instead of instead of distance like
Voyager yeah time yes rich Evans that's
why you get paid the big bucks to come
up with story ideas for a show that will
never exist for but then but it has to
be the the ship itself that's causing
the anomalies or no or tied to it
somehow never when you can plenty
gobbledygook out of your ass well I mean
you need it to make yeah yeah the time
that the galaxy exists and currently is
being changed you could even have an
episode because it's projected I think
that in the far far far future the
andromeda galaxy will eventually collide
oh my god a big star starts to appear we
see what happens to Starfleet in like a
hundred thousand years are they still
around well yeah I was thinking more of
the physical change of the galaxy that's
I mean that's a second a whole other
episode too though I mean you can do the
episode with the Andromeda you see
Andromeda then another episode were just
or a hundred thousand years in the
future what what's what's happened to
Starfleet
because I'm picturing a giant star just
appearing in the middle of some known
civilization some some inhabited star
system Geordi we need that warp drive
see I'm thinking something like the the
galaxy is sort of like the zipper mm-hmm
you know that's being that's pulling
apart okay and and they don't know what
quite yet yeah eventually they do that
it's been it's been rigged to to cascade
these events there has to be somebody in
charge of this yeah we're an ancient
ancient civilization was gonna die but
they figured out a way to come back
perhaps the galaxy like went through
some kind of time distortion and ended
up there and they used it as sort of
like a Trojan horse as a tool like they
knew I mean it sounds a little
extravagant but you can you can you
could Whittle it down
you could will up down don't if you and
if you go if you like going to like the
distant past of Star Trek there's things
you could revisit you could dig out of
the lore that would be fun to see yeah
you could remember the first Frankie
episode with the the ancient guardian of
the planet you could work him in somehow
the Empire is forever your Empire fell
prey to a supernova I'd remember like
the time portal from the original series
the first humanoid race that all of the
other races came about from you could
even what is the life of one race
compared to the vast stretches of cosmic
time you could visit all these different
things if you're really widened and you
jump around the Star Trek timeline
don't forget the dinosaurs from Star
Trek Voyager oh yeah I'd like to so then
you'd have to come up with these options
like why don't we just blow up the galaxy USS galaxy
you know
and that's
hey
there's a giant bow on this package
yeah
oh god
what is it
the, you, you said, the, we're talking we're sitting here talking the whole time about a galaxy-wide phenomenon
and what's the name of the fucking ship
Jesus Christ
yeah
this is one message on the computer the galaxy is unraveling I
know the ship's really falling apart
they don't get it yet they don't get the
messages left behind by the old crew
just yet right they only got fragments
but yeah so you want strong characters
you have you have a crew of Cadets but
bring Barclay on board its Barclays kid
who's like super competent and so for
sure you have the twist shouldn't you be
worried about that he's too
overconfident and strong yeah there's a
cadet on board now Sam Barclay Oh No
Admiral guard Sam Barclay at your
service yeah not what I expected but
yeah as far as characters go see that's
why I kind of like the the three mains
as the card Geordi and dr. Leah Brahms
because they're just like you don't want
to dredge up everybody you don't want to
dredge up everybody but I think for
mains it's you gotta be the card and
Geordi but you need at least one or two
of the kids oh yeah oh no I mean yeah
yeah oh you're looking at maybe seven or
eight yeah oh yeah yeah you bring up
some of the the cadets the ones that
have the best personality quirks or
skills you know obviously you'll you'll
need a and helmsman you'll need there
might even be like an engineering
student that or Geordi brings along
teach there'll be a great opportunity to
learn about how an old warp drive works
so yeah I mean like those are the
details we're just talking big picture
stuff I think I think it's yeah if you
have a like a more of a science mystery
than a another this is the race with the
guns we need to take care of I think
that's a good thing if it's more science
based with your mystery an ancient race
to transform the current state of the
galaxy into what it used to be yeah kind
of kind of like the the Voyager when the
guy is the dad from that 70s show is
trying to change that you know how time
is in the blink of an eye I had changed
history itself about my people to thrive
again something like that definitely
where the ship is whoever is on the ship
needs to be on the ship and they're all
kind of like connected to it in some way
where it's like I said a Trojan horse
mm-hmm but room for stand-alone
adventures room for some good
characterization some good character
stuff and kind of slow it down a bit
overarching science mystery a couple a
couple of fun moments we get to bring
back a galaxy-class ship and Picard his
character gets instead of man in in in
tank top ripping the spine of the Borg
Queen out and breaking it in half he's
he's a little - he's back to being
thoughtful Picard a Star Trek galaxy
everyone like where the climax is a
stirring speech and not a gunfight the
race wants to live but we're here -
we've done great things we've achieved
peace in our time okay
