Oct 2, 2018
The Psycho Franchise (part 1 of 2)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=adGebPmRjxg
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/1047240281404461059
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/10155930885957634
https://www.redlettermedia.com/review/the-psycho-franchise-review-part-1-of-2

well Josh its October the best time of
the year and we're gonna talk about some
horror films 101 because it's Halloween
season
everybody wants horror movie
recommendations short so we're gonna
recommend some that nobody ever
recommends when it comes Halloween
season yeah you never hear about these I
don't know why it's a whole series it's
you know you'd think well people don't
even think of the psycho
they think of psycho yeah they don't
even think of it as a franchise and yet
but there is there's four movies three
theatrical movies one made for cable
movie a failed TV show pilot and then a
successful TV show both called Bates
Motel and a remake what there was a
remake I don't think that exists oh okay
is it one of those never made it off the
ground like that last Indiana Jones
movie
it's kind of hard to talk about the
psycho franchise without talking about
Alfred Hitchcock's original film but the
question is what do you say that hasn't
already been said million times
well, um, I would like to address that real quick
if there's anybody that started this video that is not seen psycho
what the fuck
we're gonna give spoilers for a movie
that everybody knows all the twists to
but we should say that about all the
movies because they all have their own little twists
that's true
and yeah
we're gonna spoil all of them cuz it's impossible to talk about them without doing that, but, uh
but the newest one is almost fucking 30 years old, so
I don't feel that bad about it
that's true but everybody knows psycho
and not everybody knows the the sequels
yeah well me but that's that's kind of
the thing about psycho is that it's one
of those movies that's impossible to see
the same way twice that's this is this
movie is at the top of my list of movies
that I wish I could see without knowing
anything about it which I wish I could
watch it for the first time yeah not
knowing because I didn't see it for the
first time until like high school yeah
but I knew the whole movie before I even
watched it pretty much like there are
certain things and like little bits and
pieces but yeah like you know it's it's
it's impossible to avoid this whole the
whole thing but Norman and his mother
know it spuds McKenzie head could be you
look for this display amended Bud Light
psycho sweepstakes to win a but like
party rich McKenzie is this your is this
your favorite Hitchcock movie no I feel
like it's not a lot of people's favorite
Hitchcock movies even though it's like
his most successful and most famous yeah
when you think of Hitchcock he think of
psycho but I mean it's really good
it's high on the list but I like the
more kind of atmospheric stuff a little
better and I like he does some depending
on who the writer he's working with he
does some really good character stuff
like like vertigo is you know know is
such a you know character study of Jimmy
Stewart and like North by Northwest
which was right before psycho both of
those movies it was vertigo then North
by Northwest and then this I think we
need to it's hard to kind of like
because psycho is such a so engrained in
everybody's mind it's hard to kind of
keep in mind that like this movie broke
so many rules when it came out and was
so I mean it really I mean the fact that
it was the first movie to show a toilet
like yeah nobody thought it was gonna
work down to Hitchcock himself yeah
wasn't they talking at one point about
just splitting it into two and making it
two episodes of Alfred Hitchcock
Presents yeah which was kind of which
was already sort of logical because he
shot it with that with his TV crew and
that's kind of something we talked about
that I want that I was finding really
interesting as counter as I was doing a
little more reading kind of checking
into the making of this thing of this
this movie and just like how it was
essentially just Hitchcock seeing all
that like Roger Corman and cheaper you
know exploitation rep is just like I
could do that yeah well it's like we
said it's coming up a vertigo was not a
big hit it was a big kind of expensive
movie it was not a hit North by
Northwest was a huge hit yeah and so
it's like what do you do now Hitchcock
and it's like this almost feels like he
kind of made it as a joke almost like
it's very low-budget it was
intentionally shocking yeah he was
really no Studios wanted to touch it
like the book it's based on the book by
Robert Bloch you know loosely based on
Wisconsin's favorites
Ed Gein oh yeah it was the gift that
keeps on giving because there's been so
many classic movies that have been
inspired by Ed Koch ah yes eyeko Texas
Chainsaw Massacre Silence of the Lambs
endless movies that are actually
supposedly about Ed Gein
there's a ton of those oh god I just
wanted Kane Hodder I've never seen it
it's like I don't fix your Kane Hodder's
n GD doesn't he's supposed to be like
middle-aged slub yeah well that's the
original book Norman Bates was like kind
of like a fat middle-aged gross guy yeah
so they changed that for the movie for
the best it would have been too much I
think it's the biggest thing about
psycho for me and some of the sequels is
the empathy that that all of the
characters generate yes last one of that
that's why kind of why I wanted to do
this and not just talk about psycho but
also the sequels is because more Norman
Bates may be my favorite movie character
like ever yeah and it's because he
stands out I mean the sequels came out
in the 80s and it was sort of the height
of the slasher boom so they were trying
to kind of capitalize on that but they
still managed to do more with that
character than you could do with a
typical slasher movie character and each
one of them just really show you
different like sides of him and he gets
to kind of grow and change as a
character and do different things and
that's what makes him so interesting to
me because yeah he's extremely likable
and and you feel bad for him the whole
way through because he's not he's not
just a generic slasher no he's he's a
very personable and charming and you
know he troubles extremely troubled yeah
but like he's a relate in all this
trouble in all this you know murder
amongst all this murder and insanity
he's still a very relatable character
he's you know he's someone he might run
across yeah in the middle of the desert
running a shitty motel well that's
that's another thing to point out is the
and I don't know if people talk about
this but like the iconography of the
series in love like the the old I think
Hitchcock called the the house like
California Gothic yeah old house on the
hill the hotel in the foreground and
then another thing I like about the
sequels is that they kind of fill out
more you see more of like fairvale the
town nearby yes a diner but more of the
house too
and more the house Sam absolutely so
they keep expanding and with the sequels
which I which is what you got to do
instead of just making the same movie
again and they really that's something I
really want to emphasize here is that
they definitely made different movies
this is not yes Friday the 13th this is
not you know the later
Fredi movies this is this is these are
very different movies from each other
but still obviously with the same
character there's a lot of similarity
there yeah well then the yeah there it
stays true to the to Norman Bates
yes as a character all three of them
even though they're they're very
different but yeah and his and his
growth and change yeah yeah by Duke I
want to talk a little more about the
marketing of psycho yeah we have Motel
tucked away off the main highway I think
that's another place that it whether it
was intentional or not actually to cross
over and kind of the into the
exploitation sort of market performance
of psycho this of course is to help you
enjoy oh yeah William Castle ischemic it
absolutely is like you know it's it's
it's not you have to you know sign a
life insurance policy but you know that
having it be an actual enforced like you
are not allowed in the theatre you
cannot go into the theater once the
movie started yeah which was brilliant
and it worked absolutely in the in the
films favor but there's that there's the
the trailer oh god it's just incredible
and there's you know it again like
William Castle would be in a lot of his
trailers rather than you know there'd be
some footage but it would be like
William Castle I haven't Willing Castle
I made this movie and I want to talk to
you about it right you should have seen
the blood uh-huh the whole place was
well it's it's too horrible to describe
great that's what psycho is to a
wonderful degree like a whole bigger
thing but yeah well that's that trailer
and I want to mention this because it is
famously the first movie to show a
toilet they always talk about that but
in that trailer which is Hitchcock you
know taking you on the two or the Bates
Motel
it's very tongue-in-cheek and he's very
funny in it it's very of Uncle er and
just sort of I never mind yeah we won't
talk about the bath
the bathroom but in that trailer he goes
into the bathroom and you see the toilet
yeah I'll tell you that's a very
important clue was found here and I was
like that's always been weird to me that
people talk about the movie as being the
first time you see a toilet in a movie
but this trailer which presumably played
before other movies before psycho even
came out like the toilets in there there
it is it's that's that is odd I wondered
about that is like is that I always
thought that we might be like a like a
urban legend or something the idea
that's the first movie to show a toilet
I have no idea of no not as far as I
guess it's the it's pretty famous for
that yeah then I always wonder about
that like were people riding in the
theater and they saw the trailer like oh
no but yeah though there's the story
that I wasn't leaving screenwriter
justify no justified of the story that
Joe stefano was specifically the one
that was pushing for I want a toilet in
this movie for whatever reason and so I
Trek was like make it you know have to
be in the movie like make it part of the
plot and it is it's a part of the story
you cannot take that out of a movie so
that's that's how you got to do it and there it is
the first toilet of cinema
who'da thunk it
I can't imagine how shocking this movie
must have been when it came out and I
think that's something that kind of get
so because now it's considered like a
classic yeah but it really I mean it was
yeah kind of this under the radar thing
he was doing just to see what he could
get away with things like the toilet or
the amount of like sexuality and nudity
in the movie like I mean Janet Lee is in
her underwear through like half of her
scenes and it's again it's nothing that
hadn't been been being done in
exploitation movies and you know cheapy
stuff but he wanted to see how much of a
be put into the mainstream at that point
I guess yeah yeah any other idea that
also it needed to be black and white to
get past the censors essentially with
all the blood I love that though it's
beautifully shot and especially coming
after vertigo yeah it is just like this
beautiful I don't know is it Technicolor
or is it it's definitely one of those
props vibrant yeah
to go from that to this little kind of
down and dirty low-budget movie yeah but
it's not like it's funny that you you
wouldn't necessarily know it was a TV
crew looking at it cuz it's not super
flat no no it's there a lot of really
brilliant shots really confusing like
just from we're looking at shots like um
when the detective is killed he's going
down the stairs kind of backwards and
there's that weird source I just it's
like such a strange thing to look at it
looks like an image from a dream like it
doesn't look natural or real no and
that's kind of all the the kill scenes
in the movie are like that
shower scene is still weird today like I
can't imagine like the editing of it
yeah and like the the continuity how
it's like there'll be a shot of Janet
Lee in the shower it'll cut to just a
slightly wider shot which and she's in
like the same motion but her hair is
completely wet when it wasn't before
nothing lines up it's really bizarre so
it's already starting to fragment there
yeah yeah it seemed like every cut is a
literal cut yeah the knife to different
actors in the in the Beth genitally and
Cameron Bure name but she was like a
play by model yeah I cuz they wanted
someone that would just be comfortable
with the nudity yeah you don't see
anything I guess but it's it's all
suggestive yeah and that's you know
people were convinced that you saw the
knife going to the body yeah do you ever
do the same with Texas Chainsaw Massacre
people are convinced that movies way
more gory than it really is because it
just feels dirty
yeah like even the shot of like just
Gentiles torso with your belly button
like you couldn't even put a belly
button on TV and most people have one
it's true it's true but yes stuff like
that you couldn't show on television you
know that was I suppose scandalous in
and of itself it's again it's hard to
you know look back at it now and it's
just such a part of anybody that has any
sort of interest in horror or suspense
or Hitchcock at all you know knows that
scene possibly the most famous scene in
movie history it's up there it's got
it's got to be the most parodied scene
in movie industry
that kid gets no tip
definitely one of the most famous scores
well the music sounds violence like that
re great I mean there's the reason
everybody knows that yeah like when you
think of it you think of a knife
stabbing into skin yeah it has that
unnerving sound to it yeah that feel of
the discordant you know mallet the
discordant chords and the sharp pulls on
the string so it's just like yeah it
feels like you know what your ears are
getting stabbed and it's still fine I
found out and it's still fascinating to
me that Hitchcock initially was like
there's not going to be any music in
that scene yeah he originally wanted to
be he said something like they thought
it would make it more like starak and
shocking or something like that yeah it
was his wife that convinced him to do it
well I guess her I guess Bernard
Herrmann just scored it anyway now okay
so you don't have to use this but here
and overall I guess that that was part
of the the thing was that initially
Hitchcock had seen it without the
without the score on it it was just like
this isn't turn out so good just put
this on TV and then once the score was
done he gave Herrmann like a huge bonus
just like just movie as a third you
something like that yeah it is really
throughout the score is a character oh
yeah I mean it's the first thing in the
movie
Saul Bass opening credits so that famous
score which was famously ripped off her
reanimate er I think Richard man who did
that music he called it an oh my sure
it's just the same thing but that shower
scene also famously that's shocked
people because it killed off your
protagonists a third of the way through
the yeah and that's again like I wish I
could watch this for the first time
because you are with Marion crane for
the you know that whole first part of
the movie you sympathize whether when
you understand her dilemma I mean she's
just she's just trapped in this mistake
she's made and that's you know she takes
the opportunity and almost immediately
starts regretting it and we think that's
gonna be the story and there's this you
know this nice young man who's who's you
know runs the hotel and you know we're
gonna see what happens to her and her
travails like is she gonna be able to
make it to Samba for something or other
no she's dead well that's I love the
element of almost like chance that's in
the movie like even from the first shot
we I know it was famously supposed to be
one long shot but they kind of had to
chop it up when it right into the window
there's a series it dissolves there but
it's like we could have went into any
other window in that in that hotel and
we would have a completely different
story and then Marion crane she could
have stopped at any different hotel
would be a completely different story
yeah and then there's like great kind of
Hitchcock II and black humor after she's
killed in the shower the camera pans
over to the the newspaper that she's
wrapped the money in right it's like hey
that's what set this whole story in
motion and it doesn't matter anymore
nope the entire catalyst for the story
just well meaningless
yeah and just completely a whole
different track now and I think there's
there's a like it the movie does a
little bit of a foreshadowing of
something I've caused you some trouble
mother my mother what is a phrase she
isn't quite herself today you know that
the Normans seems like creep eventually
initially he just seems like a shy kind
of weirdo he just really likes candy
corn
and then they have that whole discussion
in the parlor which may be my favorite
scene in any movie of just two people
having a conversation yeah if you love
someone you don't do that to them even
if you hate them you understand I don't
hate her
I hate what she's become I hate the
illness like so much happens in that
scene somebody like you see Norman Bates
go through so many different emotions to
see her completely you know change her
entire plan of what she's doing yeah
because of her reaction to him and just
like the angles like she's shot kind of
you know sort of eye level he's shot
just slightly below looking up makes him
a little intimidating this is very
subtle yeah and then well then there's
that really low shot where you see the
what if his taxidermy isn't how all I
think is fine so yeah yeah and that's
where you start to get the sense like
not even necessarily you know what he's
up to but number one that he's a lot
creepier than he seemed initially number
two he's going to be more of a character
in the movie than you think initially oh
sure like that's really where it's just
like okay well that's a long dialogue
yeah yeah I think that's probably the
longest conversation in the movie
between any characters would think so
she leaves the parlor and then this is
the first time that were not with her
records on it holds on Norman it's like
okay we're switching over to a different
movie now yeah yeah it doesn't so easily
that it's that it's you barely even
think about it when it's happening if
you think about it at all yeah and then
the shower scene like that long
meticulous cleaning up afterwards like
so methodical is oh man he's just you
feel for Norman so much there because
you know in the in the language of the
movie you don't know that it's him yet
so he's just having to clean up after
his mother and just like he's conflicted
and he's worried that is you know
someone's going to find out and and he
just is making sure that every little
thing as much as he can is cleaned up
and put away and you feel Foreman a lot
at that point mhm
and then if I have any complaints about
the movie it's very very minder because
a lot of ways this is a perfect film but
after that whole all the opening with
Mary and Crain after the shower scene
after the cleanup scene we kind of shift
focus to characters that are not
interesting at all yes miss Marion
sister sure Lila is Marion hair of
course not thank you something wrong
yeah the audience surrogate like you
this is now you were with these
characters that are just to kind of like
inform you of what the actual story is
but yeah Sam Loomis okay who the hell
cares about Sam Loomis they're there
because it's the only way that the story
is gonna have an ending right somebody's
got to be looking for Marion yeah I get
that but man I think Vera miles is a
great actor the dude the Sam Loomis
guy's a dud oh boy yeah and well Vera
miles who's Lila crane and sister she's
not a whole lot of characterization too
there's some little things where she's
kind of kind of the assertive one of the
two she's the one that's really taking
action which makes sense because it's a
sister right her sister right but hers
her being somewhat assertive goes into
the sequel a lot more too
we'll get to yeah well and it's also
like again I wonder what this would have
been like to see it for the first time
where you are invested in the mystery
but yeah obviously we know exactly
what's happening so that's correctly
slated and we're just sort of admiring
the filmmaking but then that's all
helped out when Martin balsam shows up
as hired as the detective and he's got
his first shot if somebody walks right
into the gap too close and so we don't
really know how we're supposed to feel
about him either he feels sleazy from
the get-go yeah did you come up here on
just a hunch and nothing more not even a
hunch just hope a little checking I
could get to believe you yeah yeah you
start to kind of realize that Martin
balsam 'he's you know on the up and up
and as soon as you discover that then he
gets killed - phone call right before
it's like I figured this out I got this
I'm gonna go up there boom dead oh
that's more than that kind of Hitchcock
black humor of just like how was sort of
futile it is you can be completely
invested in this you know crime you're
investigating and then second later you
didn't look the right way yeah I love
that overhead shot - oh it's so good
yeah and when mother comes out and stabs
him in the face and this is this is a
little bit of a quibble about the
sequels but it's kind of tough too
because like it at times it almost feels
like a ripoff where it's just like it's
that shot again it's this thing again
yeah but so much of that is number one
so good but number two so just like
worked into the general language of film
by that point right so it's just like
yeah it's a ripoff but at least it's
ripping off you know psycho is an
influence but yeah but so much so many
of those shots again have become iconic
yeah and are not just in the sequels not
just referencing the sequels but in all
sorts of movies mm-hmm all you know all
sorts of camera mr. X like you know
you're it's it's almost a magic trick
like look over here
oh shit
yeah
actually I would say the roughest part
for me is the seam the explanation seen
at the ends oh yeah Norman Bates no
longer exists he only half existed to
begin with and now the other half was
taken over what would you like nobody
likes let's see Hitchcock didn't like it
you have to go back ten years at the
time when Norman murdered his mother and her lover
his mother was a clinging demanding woman
but you have so imagine an audience at the time
I mean and again going with things that were probably shocking at the time
I mean you got a dude in drag
yeah
like you've shocked the audience
they're like what the fuck is happening
and so you
almost have to have a you know calm
everything down
let me just spell out what is happening
there but it is a long exposition see
yeah but at least it leads to one of my
other favorite shots in the movie
because it's very subtle
very simple as if I could do anything
except just stare it's just Norman
wellhe's mother now right he's 100%
mother and he's just flowering into the
camera with that smile on his face yeah
and then there's the real subtle overlay
of mother's face and then the immediate
cut to the chain pulling the cart of the
swamp at the end remember that story
yeah just like a little coda to that but
just the way that it like apparently
there were some prints of a movie that
didn't have the skull yeah overlaid
which is interesting yeah I don't I
don't know what why some had it and some
didn't but I don't know particularly
maybe it's because of that long
explanation see that all of a sudden
just kind of dumps you back into the
story for a second before you're ready
to go yeah it's like hey hey hey okay
bye I also liked that shot of Norman he
kind of looks up and has that little
smirk on his face and echoes the shot of
Marion driving and there's a lot of that
where it's sort of like a lot of like
parallels or there's a lot of shots of
mirrors yeah specifically with Marion
crane and it's always that's sort of
like subtle visual suggestion of her
kind of
reflecting in internal conflicts because
he's a she's a good person but she's
doing this bad thing
yeah and that's that's kind of the thing
is that at the end you still feel like
Mormon is a good person that's just
Norman's not there anymore
right but you still feel like he was
good he was trying
and that wasn't Norman exactly and
that's well that's what makes Norman
interesting as a like I don't know if
you want to call most slasher movie
villain but whatever a horror villain
yeah a killer is that yeah he is a
victim because he has no control over
this absolutely he's a psycho she just
goes a little mad sometimes we all go a
little mad sometimes haven't you well I
just love that it was like Hitchcock
just kind of did it as a lark and it is
considered one of his you know it's it
was this most successful movie it's his
most famous movie paramount didn't even
want it yeah and it's like this sleazy
little thing that he was doing is just
like it makes sense that that would be
is his most successful film yeah
so got the 20 years later 22 years 22
years later that's what we believed or
didn't psycho 322 yeah that's right I
don't know what the kind of motivation
was initially to make this movie psycho
- yeah I feel like I'd have to know more
about what was going on a universal at
the time from my kind of like my version
of it is that the studio is like as this
is what was at 82 there's like the
height of the slasher movies which for
anyone that doesn't realize it there
were so many fucking slashers there's a
great documentary called going to pieces
if you can find it check it out because
it covers all that but there was like
every week there was a new slasher movie
so I'm picturing Universal being like
hey these slasher movies are big do we
have any do we don't need properties or
someone gets stabbed oh hey chief oh we
got that famous one of those all right
but I know originally the idea was it
was just gonna be like a made-for-tv
movie okay and at one point they were
talking about having Christopher Walken
play Norman Bates alright just cuz they
weren't sure they were gonna get Tony
Perkins right it was just gonna be this
little made-for-tv film yeah which the
fourth one ended up being but that's
it's crazy even to think about because
you've got some real like good people
well that that's the thing is I think
once Anthony Perkins got on board
they're like oh we should probably treat
this like a real movie yeah and so they
got it's interesting because I got all
these people involved with it that are
sort of like people that clearly
inspired by Hitchcock Richard Franklin
who was actually a Hitchcock protege
yeah have you ever seen his movie road
games not yet it's really good I've got
it sitting waiting I'm gonna watch it's
a speaking of Hitchcock it's like like
rear window but in a semi-truck it's
really good with Janet Lee's daughter
Jamie Lee Curtis yeah and it was
scripted by Tom Holland
now the Spider Man Tom Holland know the
the Fright Night a child's play Tom
Holland yes Fright Night also inspired
by rear-window deed be a let's talk
about the the kind of the plot of this
starts off with a courtroom scene and
Norman has been judged saying
he's been working with Robert loggia and
in a rare just normal guy performance
yeah Robert loser just gets to be a
person a doctor that you know concerned
about his patients 743 people against
Norman Bates release including the
relatives of the seven people he
murdered lila who in the interim married
Sam Loomis
she's Lila Loomis sounds like a comic
book character or some pretty much does
so this is when Lila Loomis or Lila
crane is an interesting character I love
her in this movie yes Noma was not
convictable murder he was found not
guilty by reason of insanity and since
he is no longer again you will be
directly responsible and she it's
interesting because yeah Norman Bates
has let out and it's sort of about him
kind of readjusting to society and
trying to kind of you know stay sane
basically yeah it's it's a little goofy
that so many people are just kind of
like forgiving of him in the town really
interesting I mean I feel like it's
almost like it's probably obviously it's
written that way for convenience
partially but right it feels like almost
like a small-town thing just like you
know he's one of ours he's from here and
you know yeah that's true he's earned
this forgiveness and he was he was put
away for 22 years and he you would think
that in in in reality you think more
people would be like Lila or like Dennis
Franz
oh come on psycho pick it up come on
pick it up
it's matter you lose your nerve ah but
do you only attack women yeah it seems
like fair Emil doesn't have a lot of drunk assholes
or maybe it did
but, yeah
-+and at the beginning you've really you can get
into Lila's character like anybody that
who's family got killed by a me with
Manson no we're just like no you they
have to stay in to see this person out
or ever yeah yeah stuff like that so
it's kind of fits in that same vein and
she's you know 100% in certain certain
that he's going to kill again it's just
going to be the same thing it was yeah
and it doesn't take long before you
really get that get the sense just, like, somebody's fucking with Norman
hello who is this
my mother is dead well that's what's
great about the sequel is that well like
we said there's gonna be spoilers for
this whole thing but the spoiler of the
movie is that it's not Norman killing
anybody
yeah and the idea of doing a sequel to a
movie about one of the most famous
killers in movie history he doesn't kill
anybody
yeah like that's crazy it's really what
makes a movie yeah because that's it
almost immediately you get that you know
you get that sense like people are dying
but it's not Norman because you just get
that feeling just from him it's just it
was all fixed job well it does like it
does a good job of I mean yeah he's very
sympathetic again because it's like you
you you want to root for him yeah I want
him to be okay but keeping you kind of
on edge of not knowing if it's actually
him going crazy again or who's doing the
killing now see that's one thing that I
will say is I didn't really get the
sense from the movie pretty much at all
like apart from maybe Dennis Franz it's
just like it's not or even no okay I
never really felt that way alright there
were things like the he starts working
at the diner down the screen which is a
diner let's mention just in one line of
dialogue in the first movie diner about
10 miles up the road just outside of
Fairdale oh god that's right he sorry I
love that they expand on that like
there's a lot of attention to the first
movie in their childhood yeah
honor that and expand on it but yeah
like he's working in the diner and
there's the the orders and written on
one of the orders is something about
something for mother
oh you get that slut out of my house
yeah
that's before I kill her
she has like a co-worker
played by meg tilly yes start staying
with him because she needs a place to
crash
and so she yes he needs a place to crash
and all her friends are apparently
terrible
well we discovered what her real
motivation yeah which is a great
revelation mhm
why did you lie to the shelf and say
Bates was with you this afternoon mother
well I cuz the first part of the movie
you're wondering I mean a lot of people
in this town are nice to norman when he
gets out but she
is like a newcomer to town so you're
wondering like why like the more she
learns about him like why is she so
sympathetic towards him and women to
like stay in his house with this guy
that you know for all she knows couldn't
still be crazy yeah just about anybody
like I mean that's the thing like people
are nice to him but they're not just
palling around with normal right they'll
have keeping a wary distance to a point
right so for the first part of the movie
that almost feels kind of like a flaw or
any is seems like she's kind of written
for story convenience but then you find
out who she is she's Lila's daughter
okay looks like oh she's a part of us
this would have done it mother he's
innocent innocent he killed your aunt
didn't he not to mention the six other
people mother that was 22 years ago Mary
people don't change
he's got again when talking about
empathy like she even up to that one
who's already is just like she's you can
tell that she's learning about Norman
and finding out who he really is yeah
because then you're starting to worry
just like Oh was the movie gonna pull a
thing on me where she's the one that's
killing everybody like oh that would be
terrible because she's such a good
character it's really good and she's a
character there were early talks to have
that character played by Jamie Lee
Curtis no we'd have been interesting
just because of obviously of the Janet
Leigh connects yeah it would have been a
different type of character I think with
her performance for sure because I
really really like meg tilly in those
she's great I mean she's my favorite
thing about the movie yeah she's so well
and also the kind of when you do find
out that she's Lila's daughter and she's
her mother is very domineering and kind
of controlling and so yes you can
understand her kind of empathy towards
Norman for sure that's sort of parallel
again like the first movie or there's
sort of the parallels between Marion
crane and Norman and yet really the turn
she takes through the movie which is
more subtle until you know more of her
background the fact that she's Lila's
daughter but also you know like whatever
psychology or whatever classes she was
you know taking college and just like it
was you know that was all part of it and
that she walks in you know basically on
her mother's side and
by the time you get that revelation
she's not on her mom's side anymore
mm-hmm it's a big turn and gets bigger
yeah you know she's really fighting
fighting her mom to leave Norman alone
because she can tell that Norman is
cured essentially at that point or at
least you know fairly stable yeah less
so as the movie goes on because
somebody's trying to be smart they
worried he'd probably be fine yeah
that's the funniest thing about watching
the rest of these these sequels it's
just like if you would have just left
him alone nothing what happened well
this movie believes in rehabilitation
yeah on the third movie doesn't yeah
we'll get in and you know there's a lot
of there's a lot of mix-ups around like
who's actually doing the killing it does
a good job of that too yeah at some
points you're like maybe it's meg tilly
and then maybe it's not it's Lila yeah
and there's the phone calls - yeah are
those related or is that actually a
Norman said yes mom sorry we were
interrupted Norman there's no one there
you know you you really don't have a
sense like I kind of thought for the for
a good chunk of it that it was Lila till
Isla gets killed which I feel we need to
talk about that by the way yeah the
movies one real nod to like 80s slasher
we have teenagers sneak into the base of
it apparently that's what people have
been doing while the house was abandoned
yeah sneak into the basement and smoke
pot and have sex and the characters
there right out of a Friday the 13th
and then and then Vera miles death
we have this like classic kind of
Hollywood actress no and she's getting
killed in like a Jason Voorhees death
scene just that knife right in the mouth
it's so bizarre it's really weird and
and the you know the effect is not that
great now it's awkward it's jarring yeah
just like yeah and that's why I that
really kind of stood out to me it's just
like oh we're trying they like knives
are big goring like
but to me like shots like that make it
feel like Richard frankly didn't want to
make the slasher psycho
yeah they those parts definitely stand
out at the same time it's like I mean
Hitchcock was trying to push the
envelope sure his day so it makes sense
when you do a movie in the eighties they
would want to push the goer a little bit
further but that's something they're not
I mean the envelope had been pushed well
past that by that point so that's true
yeah
trying to push this character into that
spot yeah that's not as comfortable yeah
although it ends up not being his
character so you can justify it that way
I guess
god knows what mrs. spool is capable of
well that's the big twist at the end
mrs. spool this kindly little old lady
that works at the diner with Norman are
you really my mother the woman you
thought was your mother was my sister
she killed the husbands yeah yeah it's a
whole thing they they trying I know the
screenwriter the third movie didn't like
the kind of twists that mother wasn't
really mother so he he kind of tried to
veer that back in the third movie yeah
but the important part it's this kindly
old lady over the head with a shovel so
hard that breaks the chair it's jarring
and it's funny just because it's an old
lady but it is a shocking moment it's a
hell yeah cuz Norman has been so
sympathetic and you feel so bad for him
throughout the whole film and then and I
think it's a great reveal for her
character at the end to were like you're
down by the hotel again we see her what
looks like mother right coming up the
stairs yeah that's a great job that's
sort of silhouette yeah in the
background it's gonna be yeah there's
lots of shots like that throughout the
whole series which yeah can I say the
iconography like the idea of making just
this just this old house with a motel in
the foreground but making it feel like
you know gothic an atmospheric it's such
a just an easy thing just like this but
that that hovering of the house over
everything in the action just like you
have to you must go up and you must you
know ascend to this place and like
that's that is such a big part of all of
the movies right and then there's the
image of like mother in the window to be
in the frame yeah which is there the
last shot of this movie is so great
all right mrs. spools now mother she's
been propped up in the window Norman's
on the you know the top of the hill just
it's like everything's kind of come full
circle the Airman's back mother's back
and I think these two movies that the
first one the second one back to back
make a really kind of solid double
feature absolutely like the idea that
they made a sequel to one of the classic
film like they really could have fallen
on their face yeah I made a movie that
stays true to the spirit of the first
movie and takes it in a new direction
with the character yeah yeah they're
almost that they're mirror pieces in
life yeah I think I think if you watch
the second one in black and white I
think they wouldn't even visually they
would they would line up pretty well we
didn't mention that as speaking of other
sort of Hitchcock protegees or people
inspired by Hitchcock is that the
cinematographer for part 2 is Dean Conde
right who of course got to start with
John Carpenter Halloween which obviously
owed a debt to psycho in general though
I think the a lot of the lighting kind
of matches up with with what's in the
first movie sure especially the darker
scenes the nighttime scenes and stuff
that's one during the day everything
feels kind of mundane and normal yeah
that's when things get darker and the
other sides of the house too and the
more the more explorations of the Attic
yeah and the other rooms and even the
kitchen like you don't even really see
the kitchen that much in the first movie
yeah that's true it is there's just that
shot goes and sits down at the table
yes movie yeah and then most of the
second movie is pretty much set in the
kitchen there's a lot of that yeah him
and uh meg tilly kind of bond in the
kitchen when oh that's what he gives her
a sandwich and he stumbles over the word
cutlery I just moved back here after
being many years away and I forgot to
bring any but yeah there's like
particularly about that point he's like
he's very confident he's got this new
friend everything's cool and well in the
fact that they're they're sharing
sandwiches which of course probably
reminded him of Marion crane naturally
so yeah all those little touches yeah
yeah I liked a lot I really liked
generally speaking I thought the acting
was fantastic I loved his performance in
this good things she did for you
I can't I'm not parable of course
they're they're not the doctors took em
all away like he really plays it
wonderfully
you know and again just you're having
such sympathy for him the entire time
and it's it's it's it's something that
could be lost pretty easily I think yeah
I think yeah speaking of performance as
good as he is in psycho - not so good at
psycho 3
