Feb 5, 2018
Pink Flamingos
youtube.com/watch?v=xKiYBoIgGAc
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/960505125390422016
redlettermedia.com/pink-flamingos-review

well Josh we're here today to talk about
John Waters classic family film pink
flamingos it's you know what is a movie
about family it's a movie about family
it's about family and that's what's so
powerful about it this is John Waters
1972 film not his first film not his
best film but his most noteworthy it's
really important it's it's what Citizen
Kane is to Orson Welles
pink flamingos is to John Waters yeah
it's I mean it's it's more shocking than
the movie is the idea that he made it
under the mindset that this would be the
movie that would make his career and
even more shocking than that is that
word true if you if you like John Waters
episode of The Simpsons it's the result
of pink flamingos if you liked his cameo
in one of the chipmunks sequels yep it's
resultant pink flamingos actually I
recently flew next to the Chipettes and
they were ladies if you like the
Broadway musical Hairspray it's because
pink flamingos happened first yes yes
what I would say about it overall just
before I get into like any of the plot
or anything like that is that it's
definitely not for everyone
yes far from it
it's really intentionally made to turn
people on yes the point of the movie
yeah it's it's a like pointedly angry
transgressive movie it's touching you
it's meant to shock you and it's the
punk rock mentality before a punk rock
existed yeah just a bunch of angry
misfits made this wonderful terrible
movie it's everything it's hard to even
call it terrible it's not like I mean if
you haven't seen it
we're obviously gonna show clips from it
and you'll be like this looks like
something that should be on best of the
worst
fucking pict get this body out of here
it's making me shit what are they going
to give another one what poor girl will
they get next I know they're gonna get
another one just like when I came here I
replay somebody did not you fucking
little dingleberry but there's so much
more going on yeah I think it's a movie
that benefits if you go in with a little
bit of context I think if you've never
seen it before and you just watch it
maybe like these are these people are
lunatics I mean it looks like a
documentary if you don't know the back
stories of John Waters or any of the
actors in it you you would think that
it's made by legitimate lunatics that's
fair I think I think that's intentional
this is where they made crackers right
here on this very bed where they touch
their uninspired organs together vainly
trying to recharge the worn-out battery
of filthiness
I certainly had heard about it before I
saw it because it was kind of already it
was one of the first midnight movies
well that's that's where I had heard
about it there's a book called midnight
movies saw the try that I picked up when
I was junior high I think and night yeah
that's how I heard about Eraserhead and
the holy mountain people mingoes there's
a chapter on like each of those do all
the big midnight movies from the 70s
from that era and kind of their their
place and in the history of that world I
think John Waters has got his finger on
the pulse of America I think he's got
his thumb securely up America that for
me I saw a pink flamingos for the first
time
shortly after I saw clerks and those two
newbies were very very important to me
because this is at a point when I was I
was like 13 14 years old Wow starting to
kind of get into film more seriously
like I'd been making you know backyard
movies and stuff since I was a little
kid but then clerks taught me a very
important lesson which is that Oh anyone
can make a movie mm-hmm and then I saw
pink flamingos
yeah and that taught me an even more
valuable lesson which is that anyone can
make a movie about anything yeah yeah
you know it's it's it's that weird one
like complete 180 of the the Mickey
Rooney Judy Garland hey kids let's put
on a show
like that's exactly what it is yeah
we're gonna make a fucking movie but
it's made by
buncha weirdo yeah with no money and
Melinda and a goal a purpose a very
specific purpose which was to one to
shock people and also to kind of gain
some sort of fame or notoriety yeah from
the process of shocking people yeah I
would figure more towards the notoriety
scale
yeah well that's that's it's the the the
John Waters clam the dream Landers as
they're called are sort of like they
built this persona for the themselves
which was sort of like a parody of kind
of the Andy Warhol factory kind of crowd
of artists that all you know work
together and live together and like open
those are squares compared to the dream
Landers that's that moral game but very
much like it's a family like they're the
the people that in that movie that
worked on that movie that work on John
Waters to this day and that's the crazy
thing is the movie was shot in Baltimore
or if you're from Baltimore as you call
it
Baltimore located in the teeming
metropolis known as down pat bomber
bomber bomber bomber yeah you gotta if I
- really
yes but yeah I mean Pat Moran is casting
director and Vince perennials got a set
designer like Dan Smith Dan Smith he did
makeup okay
oh yeah the ugly expert he calls
advancements right but all those people
starting with the earliest movies
multiple maniacs pink flamingos all the
way up to you know bigger movies like
hairspray or studio films like cry-baby
yep
it's interesting because he's one of the
most interesting filmmakers he's one of
my favorite filmmakers yeah but he's
also never made a movie that I would
consider to be one of my favorites he's
just made interesting consistently
interesting movies I would put cereal
mom up there but that's the one where I
feel like all of the elements of what he
could do with a studio budget and the
story yeah it's the been one of the
better stories that he's done yes where
that all works together and Kathleen
Turner is just she's amazing well that's
well we'll talk a little bit about his
actors yeah as we go along but you
mentioned story and we should mention
the story of pink flamingos which is
basically the same story is every John
Waters movie which is there's two groups
of people that are feuding one is kind
of very like open and honest about who
they are and sort of embracing their
eccentricities and their individuality
and then the other group that are sort
of either oppressive or kind of
close-minded assholes it's it's it's
happy people versus assholes yes that's
every job waters this one has the one
line that sums up his whole career I
guess there's just two kinds of people
miss and stone my kind of people and
assholes it's rather obvious which
category you fit into the irony being
that she's the asshole but of course the
assholes don't think they're assholes
that's exactly yeah but yeah the movie
is Devine lives in a trailer with her
son crackers and and her traveling
companion cotton and her grandmother or
no her mother is a man here I'm starving
to death with the maze et
and elderly woman that just wears
underwear and sits in a playpen and just
wants to eat eggs oh she loves those
eggs hey I wish I was excited about
anything as much as Edith Massey is
about those eggs what do you mean Humpty
Dumpty was an egg how could a person be
an egg carton how could a person be an
egg at all just like a person only it
was an egg a little egg all dressed up
so that's their clan and divine is known
as the filthiest person alive all the
tabloids call her that this competition
yeah and they're really a sanctioned
competition of some size I don't know
who determines it I don't know but she
is the filthiest person alive divine and
that brings about on the other end of
town coincidentally in Baltimore are too
jealous perverts well we feel this to be
an untrue statement we feel that Raymond
and I far surpass her in every aspect of
the term fill the the marbles County and
Raymond marble who want to be the
filthiest people alive I think they're
doing a pretty good job as you know we
run a baby ring oh it's really a very
simple process we keep two girls at all
times who are impregnated by Channing
our rather fertile servant we sell the
baby to lesbian couples and then we
invest the money in various businesses
around town
we own a few pornography shops plus we
front money to a chain of heroin pushers
in the inner-city elementary schools
well this is a little muddled actually
and we're talking about a movie with
like whistling assholes so we shouldn't
take the plot too seriously
sure but it's a little muddled than that
I think it would work better if divine
because divine is very boastful about
the fact that she's the filthiest
personal why do you believe in God it
almost worked better if she was just she
just was she was just herself and it
wasn't like she was trying to be that
she just was because that's her
personality and then you have the two
gels perverts that are are the ones that
are trying hard to be that you know it's
not so much that she's boastful I think
divine as possible so much as is proud
of who she is and that she's been given
this
- you know she's been like she takes it
as a point of pride I think whereas I
think probably the marbles what they are
ultimate downfall is that they're
obsessed with like being the filthiest
people I've takes over their entire
lives I really know it's about in their
mind it's about like stature yes and
Devine does not have any motivation to
be the filthiest person alive
it's just who she is exactly and that's
why it'sit's such a one-way thing where
the marbles are always attacking Devine
and her family yeah they were just fine
sitting out in the cold trailer in the
middle of nowhere with a whole trailer
oh god it wasn't until this actually
this most recent rewatch they noticed so
close watching the scenes with Edie and
like all them you could see their
breaths so clearly I'm just like well
you can see I also noticed this in the
most recent watch which I didn't before
there's one scene where not only do you
see Edith Massey's breath but you see
her like lips her teeth chattering yeah
and that just shows like the the amount
of respects that these people have for
John Waters that they're willing to do
you know this this awful hard stuff to
make a movie yeah this because they just
love working with him so much and they
they want to help achieve this vision
well yeah let's talk about the actors
okay because John Waters like most of
these actors I would not call by needs
of traditional sense of what acting is I
would not call them good what they are
are the perfect people to deliver John
Waters dialogue yes specifically mink
stole mmm-hmm and Edith Massey and
Devine of course I didn't I can't
imagine what this movie would be without
divine but every way couldn't yeah it's
it's it's it's a star-making role yes
people jealous of our careers of all of
our press why else would they sign that
the filthiest people like everyone knows
that totally become my trademark why'd
he use it in this way only to insinuate
that they're healthier than I how could
anyone seriously believe that how could
anyone be filthier than to buy ice we
you know a well known until until
unfortunately divine past you know we
found out that when you get desperate
living if you don't have delight of the
movie and that's no fun see I like
desperate living but
but it's no fun devine instead is the
only one that I would say gone Milstead
is divine the only one that I would say
is like a really solid actor outside of
John Waters movies yeah but even in John
Waters movies like polyester like that
is a wonderful comedic performance it's
amazing yeah he's a fantastic actor and
pink lemming goes a little rough around
the edges here and there but man like
when Devine is on screen like that's
that's where your focus goes well you
can't help it because it's you know the
bright red dress the hair the makeup the
other the the eye line that goes up to
here as John Waters has said the human
head did not have enough space to
contain Divine's makeup save the airline
bag it's fantastic I mean it's such a
unique like like divine really in pink
flamingos is kind of like the the
talisman of John Waters movie this is
just like that's look at that what do
you think of that that's John Waters
yeah any kind of you kind of got that
performance in the middle of it and it's
perfect it's great yeah John Waters he
was he was able to define the right
people at the right time that all just I
mean like the fact that as a young man
he would befriend this this elderly
bartender
Edith Massey and turn her into a star
like it's so absurd it's incredible she
she's my second favorite performance
hello I understand you're Eddie crackers
grandmother well she's in love with the
egg man who is like the milkman in this
universe there's an egg man that comes
to your house with a suitcase full of
eggs sure miss eighty as long as they're
a chicken land and truck driving my feet
walk and you make sure that I will bring
you the finest of the fine the largest
of the large and the whitest of white in
other words that thin shell
open of the domestic fowl will never be
safe as long as there are a chicken land
and I'm alive because I am your Eggman
and there ain't a better one in town
and there's a part when ITA's in your
playpen by yourself no one else is in
the trailer and the Eggman is there and
she is so concerned that the Eggman is
gonna leave without giving her eggs and
you believe it yeah if she's genuinely
concerned that she's absolutely I mean
if she's playing it straight cuz she
doesn't know any other way to play yeah
I passed that yeah mink stole and David
Locker a both both of whom were
fantastic as the marbles a particularly
mixed ol is just such I love her and
everything yeah like she's always
fantastic but she's just such a such an
asshole
it's incredible like like ever every
line is just like dripping with
condescension yeah you can eat shit for
all I care miss sandstone or eat
anything that you like or do anything
that you like just don't assume that I
want to know your troubles now if you
wouldn't mind I'm a busy woman with a
full day's work ahead of me please
remove yourself from my office
I feel like she's really kind of a thing
that like pulls the whole plot because
Raymond I used absolutely you know happy
to go long and very excited to be you
know part of the filthiest couple but
he's got a lot of other shit going on
yeah yeah he has his own sort of a side
thing but I don't think he's doing in
relation to trying to be the filthiest
person alive
now that's just what he does he just
likes to expose himself so women will
run away and you can steal their purses
yeah it's just it's the most hilarious
male nudity I think in a little bit
because it's got a fucking kielbasa tied
literally just like Thai and just what
the fuck is it's just ridiculous at
least do another one of my favorite
scenes and then she lifts up her dress
and there's dick and he gets horrified
and runs off that shows why he's not
really the filthiest person alive the
great thing about that scene though is I
think John Waters talks about in the
commentary is that that was just a
friend of his it was like pre-op and
this is just a brief period of time in
this person's life you know before
completely transitioning yeah I think
they shot that I think good I want to
say was like a week or two before yeah
so just this little window of time right
now it's captured on film forever and
it's it's there's something sort of
magical about that actually there's a
good amount of this and in in in in this
movie particularly like the part of the
birthday party okaying they have a
birthday party for for divine yeah
that's Verity like there's there's the
point where like if you're listening the
comment to go upon it like oh yeah
there's where there's where the poppers
kicked in yeah the singing asshole let's
let's not brush over that no that's not
the movie has a whistling asshole
but going into the the moments like
that's like the filthy stuff in the
movie I mean the movie is notorious for
being the film that ends with a
300-pound drag queen and eating actual
dogshit
yes for no reason basically that's
there's the voice-over narration by John
Waters where it's it just feels like a
carnival barker reasons like it's a real
thing but that moment in particular
because there are still some things for
a movie that was made in 1972 there are
some things that are still shocking to
this day absolutely movie still retains
that power yeah that moment not so much
because I I was thinking about this when
I saw it was in a you know a big movie
theater a mainstream movie theater scene
jackass 2 and seeing the jackass boys
drinking horse semen and vomiting in
front of each other and Here I am
surrounded by just normal people and I
was just thinking how far we've come
yeah it's weird because I know that
that's like that's the most infamous
thing but at the same time there's so
much that has gone before in the movie
well that that's that's what I wanted to
go into is there is stuff that is more
genuinely shocking than mad yeah it's
still but it but it does I mean that
shows the dedication of divine
absolutely divine eats that dog shed and
like you can see trying to smile but
gagging but still trying its I do love
how long that shot lasts yeah that's
just you're watching every every motion
go across his face most of which I don't
throw up yeah the cinema verite quality
yeah it again um but yes let's talk
about some of the well we'll work up to
some of the more shocking things that
actually happen in the movie at one
point Devine and crackers have gone over
to the marbles house and are licking
everything this is my favorite thing in
the movie well not what I think you'll
get to but I'm licking everything
because it shows that their filthiness
has like magical powers yes they lick
everything to infect the the marvel's
house with their filthy nose which
eventually the marvels come home and
their furniture starts to reject
Kirstin seats are like pushing the ball
yeah that's my favorite thing in the
movie just cuz that like the rest of the
movie is sort of I don't want to say
grounded but it just feels like you're
seeing like real weird gross things but
that enters like a fantasy aspect but
the rest of the movie doesn't have yeah
that the furniture is a straight-up
rejecting but yeah that eventually works
around into them getting so worked up
that there's a little incest blowjob
action going on there in the really the
saddest blowjob it really is it's just
like it doesn't linger on it too much
but but even that like when you talk
about kind of going into the movie and
understanding the context of it which is
like this was shortly after porn had
kind of become mainstream right things
like deep throat he was like a big a
box-office hit which is insane to think
about and it makes me so like this was
sort of a response and a parody of that
but going more extreme like oh we've
blowjobs you can show those in movies
now yeah okay we're gonna do this it was
because that was the year of porno chic
that was the year that hardcore
pornography finally became legal
exploitation was over once that happened
it was like when Andy Warhol painted the
soup can and the abstract expressionist
were over overnight go on and it makes
me think of there's a line and sussel be
demented where sussel says your
Hollywood system stole our sex and
co-opted our violence so there's nothing
left for our kinds of movies except this
and that's like that's what that moment
in Finkelman goes feels like yeah it's
like we're gonna have a blowjob there's
gonna be an incest blowjob and it's
going to be incredibly uncomfortable
oh it's not one of my favorite parts of
the movie but when you kind of know a
little bit about why it's in there yeah
adds something to it yeah but it's
definitely something that's still in the
movie that on its own without that
context which remains like why would
consider more shocking than meaning shit
yeah and there's another scene with
crackers getting busy yeah this is the
scene I have trouble watching it's
probably yeah probably the most
uncomfortable for me and I think it's
almost exclusively because of cookie
Mueller - Mueller plays a woman that is
hired by the marbles and they have a
romantic date where they go talk to
shack awkwardly thrust into each other
and chickens are involved yeah when I do
watch the movie which isn't very often
you have to be in a mood to watch yeah
but that's the scene where I kind of
just kind of my eyes wander away from
the screen a little bit but I still it
always makes me laugh the way the
crackers says hold these goddamn
chickens but she's so I'm assuming
that's just cookie Mueller being
genuinely scared that these chickens are
gonna claw her eyes out I would think
they're men and she's so uncomfortable
and there's some blood and then they cut
the chicken's head off which also is
like well I eat chicken and I know the
chicken didn't land on my plate from a
heart attack I think we made the
chicken's life better got to be in a
movie it got fucked and then right after
filming the next take the cast ate the
chicken and really just sort of
escalates back and forth although I
really think that divides families
attacks on the marbles are really fairly
benign until the ends where it's just
like you yeah looking looking looking
there and stuff like that was you know
while the marbles are burning down the
trailer
where where mink stole almost actually
sets herself on fire yeah zero that jive
flame she pulls it back and you can see
like she pulls that coat away that
things about to go up yeah apparently uh
at one point John Waters had asked her
if she would set her hair on fire for
the movie I'm doing it know which was
good because it would have gone very
badly
yeah but then like I think I said this
off camera but it's talking about how
John Waters almost every joke in his
movies has a story behind it yeah and
now you cut to you know whatever it is
twenty thirty years later sussel be
demented on fire for a movie the climax
of the movie is sussel asking Melanie
Griffith they're still Saturday or on
fire and she does yep but an incredibly
bad special effect shot oh can you do
actually wanna stop and point out that
one one of the things that the the
marbles do is figure out where the
trailer is because trailer which is a
turd but so since they know where the
where the trailer is they send the cops
out to bust up this party except the
partygoers just kill and eat the cops
which that's something that you wouldn't
get away with now really yeah I mean
it's cartoonish yes it is but still just
like yeah cops showed up we ate them
it's it's the the premise is absurd but
the an eternal like the way it's shot
and stuff it's it feels like Night of
the Living Dead like the only kind of
grotesque yeah I was sooo mean it's all
just meat they got from a butcher shop
or something and they're just like
chowing down I would assume they say a
butcher shop from the
first sequence we're defined well
another thing that's not like I'm kind
of viscerally shocking or grotesque I'm
just like a like pure visual level is
the entire subplot with the marbles
keeping hitchhikers locked up in the
basement god yeah yeah and mr. plinkus
basement yeah like it's so ugly and
gross what's happening in a nun Channing
the butler realizes that because he's
the one that impregnates home but he's
figured out a new way to impregnate them
where he doesn't have to touch him he'd
really rather not because he really
would rather not know he's so revulsed
revolted by everything but he's their
loyal Butler so he's got to do it yeah I
just let that whole sequence he's he's
masturbate one of them has passed out
one of the women has passed out and he's
masturbating and then the other one
that's very much awake is just like
screaming at him and one of those like
endless John Waters monologues constant
why'd you sleep or she dead did you just
kill her where did they get her where
did they get this one oh we got some we
do get some pretty but that whole
concept of impregnating the women in the
basement is really upsetting it's gross
we grow like and it's all just like yeah
this is the way like you know when we
were first introduced to that basement
there's just a corpse there's one of
them died and the other ones just you
know it's just like it's it's
overwhelming to the senses in a
different way and then some of the other
stuff in the movie yeah there's no other
way out essentially at this point in the
movie so divine alerts the media goes
over to the marbles house freeze the bra
of the the teenaged pregnant girls who
castrate challenge Channing yeah that's
he's my favorite lines when when county
finds him and finally takes them back
out to the woods lurch the media and
lets them know that there will be a
there will be a trial yes many John
Waters movies end with a trial the
courtroom scene has I think I've used
this clip in probably like four or five
different videos of ours at this point
whenever I have the opportunity to use
it I like to which is when the media is
asking Devine what her politics are
shelter my politics felt as my life take
whatever you like yes kill everyone now
just goes on this little rants yeah it's
one of the funniest things yeah just a
good little button to use it's like it's
like my favorite thing from Desperate
Living is just a mink stole to beginning
yelling out the window I wanted to make
sure that we're talking about mink stole
because that is at that moment of
desperate living is a tour de force the
opening ten minutes of desperate living
are by far the funniest thing to me in
any John Waters movie because it is just
it's it's classic John Waters ranting
and it's mink stole who's the best at
that she's just yelling at the neighbors
kids but that yeah well that's again
talking about John Waters just having
the right eye for actors for his
dialogue I mean that and and Divine's
monologue at the end of pink flamingos I
think that's John Waters biggest
strength is his writing
it was writing in his eye forecasting
the right people to save he's dying
right well he's got a yeah he's got to
come up with what they say first and
then he's never been a terribly
interesting filmmaker out of visual
sense I mean obviously his early movies
are very rough around the edges and that
has kind of a charm to it yeah well
there was no choice because that's just
the way but even as he goes along like
his more professionally made movies you
know you just kind of shoots it to tell
the story like I agree with some some
exceptions of I think crybaby
has a lot of visual flair to it
comparative comparatively he has his
moments where he does something that's
almost intentionally corny like he loves
to put screens for phone conversations
yeah I think there's one of those in
almost every one of his movies god damn
you stop calling here oh it's something
that nobody uses anymore but he still
does for the most part his movies are
not something you you would point to as
far as creative visual filmmaking and
it's interesting in the early movies
like pink flamingos which is like where
he's running the camera and lots of
scenes just play out in one take it'll
start on a wide and when someone has a
monologue he'll zoom in yep and you know
when that monologue is about to end
because the cameras already zooming out
to reframe a lot of that I mean that's
you've got a you've got to be kind of
cognizant of that idea too is that like
we're looking at a movie made by people
that really didn't know how to make
movies they were learning as they went
absolutely see that with every movie
yeah I mean pink flamingos looks a
little bit better than multiple maniacs
and desperate living looks a little bit
better than pink flamingos by the time
you get to polyester they got a pretty
well down yeah you have to either to get
that get that specific sort of soap
opera TV look but yeah it's it's it's
it's it's not a movie that I watch on a
regular basis like you say kind of to be
in the mood but when you watch it if
you've seen more than subsequently go on
to watch more John Waters you see kind
of the genesis of everything and it
really is the landmark movie of his it's
really where everything started yeah
well there is
clear vision behind it - which is going
back to mentioning like a really poorly
made best of the worst movies or they
just feel like bad generic movies yeah
there is a vision - pink flamingos that
shines through the the technical
limitations I have to change my
appearance I think I'll dye my hair
another color and start dressing like a
dyke I'll get a yeah there psyche if
anything's generic about pink flamingos
it's meant to be that way otherwise
everything is a standout you know you
know run into a lot of movies where the
actors are you know magicmarker blue and
red down to the pubes are dying yeah I
think if you're like squeamish you're
hesitant about some of the the some of
the kind of more unsettling parts of the
movie maybe just look away
because I think there is a lot to take
away from the movie even if you're not
necessarily into kind of extreme or
off-putting stuff sure just as a one is
a sort of a time capsule of that era
absolutely it's very 70s it's very
specific and in terms of John Waters
vision but it still feels very 70s and
it was a movie that turned out to be
sort of prominent and important yeah era
particularly as you're watching more of
his movies see how that production style
was not just we have $7 and a trailer go
get some pink flamingos but it really
does have an aesthetic to it that he
continued on through all of his movies
and has it absolutely influenced you
know a bunch of other filmmakers yeah I
don't know how readily available the
movie is anymore I'm assuming it's still
in print on DVD I think so I know I have
the the 2-pack that it's that and female
trouble out is I know all those two
packs are out of print but individual
movies I don't know what's still
available yeah I'd have to I'd have to
see I don't know I've just had the I had
the Criterion laserdisc I don't think I
even knew the pink lingers on criteria
yep that was the that was the initial
home video version of the 25th
anniversary oh okay I auditioned was
that was that laserdisc I'm waiting for
him to put out pink flamingos again yeah
i Tyrion
they got multiple maniacs you know yeah
time the time has come it's time for the
pink flamingos blu-ray
so we can see that asshole no maybe we
don't need a boy
