Oct 8, 2018
The Psycho Franchise (part 2 of 2)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xD2Es84r3hM
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/1049444362378248193
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/10155944852757634
https://www.redlettermedia.com/review/the-psycho-franchise-review-part-2-of-2

I had to fair a second beer before we
talk about psycho three sure can
understand that
I love psycho three I'm judging we have
not discussed this beforehand by the way
you would never seen any of the sequels
right no not one
psycho obviously it's a classic it's a
great movie it's like go-to surprisingly
solid sequel did very well at the box
office so Universal was like let's keep
going pretty shortly after they rushed
out psycho three yeah and it picks up
what like the next week yeah it's and it
has a it's really strong continuity a
lot of the actors come back yep yeah the
sheriff and the sheriff we didn't even
mention the sheriff I loved him by them
yeah he's great what's her problem I
don't know but if Norman Bates is crazy
there are a whole lot of people around
here running him a close second he's so
like he's not like the hard edge he's
just like this affable you know local
sheriff in this small town he really
just wants them the town to be nice for
the people really just it this is part
of the second movie has a scene with
Robert loggia in his office and it just
holds on him like eating the sandwich
for a moment just enjoying a sandwich
yeah I wouldn't mind filling in until
you found somebody for a minute I just
won't be staying around too long no one
ever does one of Anthony Perkins
stipulations for coming back as he
wanted to get into directing so he
directed psycho 3 which I love the
visual style of this movie it's a big
part of why I like the video as we said
it's like a 1 & 2 pre double feature
psycho 3 I like one just because I love
Norman Bates as a character and the
hotel and all that stuff but it's just
so goofy
it is a weird little movie it's a weird
little movie yeah yeah but it wants to
it definitely wants to take the story to
a different place like we're kind of
primed like particularly as I was
watching the sequels pretty close to
each other like I'm proud like we're
ready for Norman to be psycho again he's
cracked he's got mother back he's ready
to do some stabbing
yeah but instead we kick off with
something that's more reminiscent to
vertigo
yes well that's a you can tell that uh
Anthony Perkins is interested in kind of
paint homage to not just Hitchcock's
work I'm psycho but Hitchcock in general
yeah cuz before and that this is what I
knew the movie when I first saw it was
gonna be something kind of different is
before we even see anything we just have
a black screen and we hear a character
he just yelled there is no God yeah
which I actually recognized I was like
oh I've heard that before and I was
thinking it must be like some industrial
band sampled it the 90 or something
negative land oh really I think the
flame uses that on a ton of stuff Oh
interesting
anything that's religiously related that
pops up so well yeah and then the scene
starts were right in the middle of some
sort of action not only isn't someone
yelling there is no God but it's a nun
and she's climbing up this bell tower
and yeah it's very run listen for a
vertigo yeah and and then a nun falls
into the middle of the bell tower
no shit
yeah well this is a marine is her name
yeah and she's runs up to the bell tower
she's gonna you know see having a crisis
of face she's gonna kill herself all the
other nuns are kind of giving her a hard
time and she accidentally kills one of
the nuns
oh good and this is the opening scene of
psycho 3 I love that yeah I do I
appreciate that it really just throws
you in mm-hmm looks like here you're in the deep end
yeah
figure out the fuck's going on
well that's what ties back in
like I was saying about the first movie
how it's like it starts with that hotel
and it's like you can go into any room
and you would have a completely
different story yeah and so this movie
feels as unnecessary as it is as a
psycho sequel I does have that kind of
anthology feel of like oh here's another
person that ends up at the hotel yeah it
could have gone that way too like a
Halloween thing or just like the central
thing is the motel yeah I know you're
bringing in different characters and
Norman could be there or not there well
that was the conceit of the the failed
TV pilot okay the Bates Motel TV show
with bud cort he but court was the lead
he takes over the hotel and I guess that
was the idea is that each week it would
be a different story about someone
that's at the hotel I've never seen it
that's the only thing psycho related
I've never seen good I mean it's yeah
the frame works there it's all a
Connacht you can absolutely use it for
something like that yeah makes more
sense than Friday the 13th series that's
true
which I don't think I've ever seen a
single episode of but it's like an
antique store or something doesn't
nothing to do with anything the movies
like you can't even do a Freddy's
nightmares thing because Jason doesn't
do anything that's right yeah it doesn't
dog yeah but as she runs away from her
her non friends she gets picked up right
by a she gets picked up by Jeff Fahey Oh
whoo it's a testament to Jeff Fahey that
his character is so likable cuz he's
also such a scumbag he's a total scumbag
oh man you never get any feeling that
he's like he's gonna turn out to be a
good guy or and he's a he's a beginning
oh it's so good but he's still likable
cuz he's Jeff a he yeah he's got a lot
of term like I mean well he thrusts
himself on her at night they call over
in the
you could have been coming instead of going
that's where you, that's where you get a Jeff Fahey to fucking do lines like that
yeah
it's so fucking ridiculous
but it's great
then there then he makes his
way Jeff he makes his way to the Bates
Motel where Norman hires them on the
spot
yeah my name is norm Norman Bates whoa
what you've been painting oh I'm sorry I
step into the back the parlor while I
clean up said the spider to the fly
mm-hmm and this is I love the
introduction of Norman in this movie
where it's you know he picks up some
dead birds and it cuts to him in the
kitchen right he's got the spoonful of
what do you stuff birds with it just
sawdust takes the same spoon and scoops
out some peanut butter and puts it on a cracker and eats it
he doesn't give a fuck anymore
this movie is going for dark comedy more so than
anything else Anthony Perkins actually
one of his big reference points was
Blood Simple right his home brothers
movie he should screen that for the cast
and crew before they started making the
movie and and got Carter Burwell though
they do the music oh yeah which which is
better than the Jerry Goldsmith it's
worth two that's something to point out
is that the score for psycho is so
iconic and the sequels neither amused
it's obscene they both went in
completely different directions yeah I
like the music for the third one it has
that main theme that is usable die jet
eclis and non-diegetic right
because this is the theme for the movie
but then later in the movie we hear
norman playing it on his piano and then
when Jeffy he's at a bar later we hear
like this funky version of it playing on
the jukebox
which got released as a single no really
yeah it's just the same thing over no I
know but they wanted they wanted some
kind of some kind like Universal and MCA
MCA wanted some kind of promotional
thing they could do so there's like
music like pop music on the soundtrack
that Carter Burwell did with Stanton
Miranda who is someone that this inter
related to early Sonic Youth Oh York hi
Christine
weird confluence of things happening on
that soundtrack well it's an interesting
score it's very very different yeah and
the Jerry Goldsmith's score is very
Jerry Goldsmith yeah but with these
really crappy like synth intrusions mm
if they're really bugged me the third
movie it's it's mostly synthy kind of
sounding yeah like if you're gonna go
that way go let's consistent that yeah
and I like it I like the score for the
third one very much um but yeah Jeff
Fahey his character really introduces
just how sleazy the movie is gonna be I
think that's another reason I like it
it's just so sleazy the whole film oh my
god like it's it's - its - yes like it's
too comedic Heights like 2 days after
he's moved into the cabin at the end
he's gotten a fucking porno collage all
over the walls
Photography all over the wall
and he's got purple lights in his lamp so you
can hold him by his dick and well that's
that's that's the scene where I knew
that I loved the movie
whatever that music is it's very like
unknown softcore porn II kind of we
always look at saks yeah but it's it's I
think the scene is supposed to be sexy
but it's it's like yeah he's got these
two lamps it's just just Jeff Fahey
naked with these two lamps in front of
his crotch doing some sort of light show
on this nude woman
so is pornography is all over the wall
oh man that's gross that's the start of
two another thing I like about the movie
I mentioned the visual style and Anthony
Perkins has clearly taken some cues from
Hitchcock but I I don't think I've ever
seen him mention this but I feel like
another influence on the movie was like
the kind of Italian jell-o films cuz
like the lighting in that scene and then
specifically that same character that
has the one-night stand with Jeff Faye
once he kicks her out of the hotel room
and she's completely naked and he throws
her close to her yeah her her death
scene in the phone booth varies very
Argento yeah
and then like the shots of her feet kind
of dancing on the broken glass like and
then this a lot of the lighting too like
the purple lighting in that scene yeah
the the back room at the parlor there's
a lot of yeah like very colorful
palettes yeah so I don't her to Tacoma I
don't know if that's a if Anthony
Perkins had any influence from Italian
stuff but maybe just watch a creep show
maybe I do wonder to the the parlor
there's like this bright green light
yeah up there but I wonder if that is
potentially a reference to vertigo again
good cuz the hotel room you know there's
the green light coming in from across
the street thing right yeah there's
there's could be a potential a lot of
things
it's a weird collection of influences
but that's that's kind of why I like it
it's a lot more stylish than the second
movie that's that's very true that's one
of the things to like I'm stylish weird
and sleazy but not very likeable like
nobody's particularly likeable I mean
even the the fucking reporter that's
there to like I do like her she's kind
of got this like old like 1940s
fast-talking sassier reporter thing hi
you know you really shouldn't rely so
much on that pretty face in those pearly
whites cuz come-ons like that could get
them both punched up then you'd be left
with only your charm see I like her I
think you're supposed to sympathize with
Norman again I Dow Jones and I don't
know if this is just a case of Anthony
Perkins being you know distracted by
also being the director of the movie but
every line is delivered with like the
same inflection yeah wait we've been
closed for a while renovations but
there's more life along this road than
they used to be and good prices good
service things will pick up well I can't
have that sort of thing going on in my
motel gives the place a bad name oh
please don't take that the wrong way
Marion I'm sorry oh I mean
Maureen and Maureen is not a very good
actor Sarah leichter in a movie really
she only had like two modes which was
mumbling and hysterics for the most part
like she could there was a little wiggle
room between like around each of those
but it's just like
her motivations seemed awful lot and
just like I mean obviously I know she's
supposed to be playing a confused person
that's going through a crisis of faith
and all that but it's just like so why
did you want to leave and then
immediately go back father Brian Norman
understands me he understands
forgiveness I failed so many people
father I won't fail him Norman Bates
gets a girlfriend and it's as awkward as
you would expect but that kind of like
twists to you know there's a lot of
parallels to the first movie which is
her initials or MC she has the short
blonde hair she's staying in Cabin
number one yeah they have the whole
lead-up to that which is just like the
first movie where Norman is you know
looking through the people at her yeah
and they do that in two as well yeah
except both times it's definitely
updated for the eighties so you like you
see right the things that they couldn't
necessarily show in 1960 you see a lot
more of the body double yeah it's so
clearly a body double and all those mad
so clear yeah but yeah that whole
lead-up where it's just like the first
movie and you're like are we just gonna
make the first movie again but then he
goes in and I love that twist
she has this vision of the Virgin Mary
right
she see mistakes Norma she mistakes
mother for the Virgin Mary and the the
knife for crucifix yeah I love that and
that's that's least the whole thing at
the end when she goes back like I saw
the Virgin Mary oh yeah we're out of
blood oh boy the delusions I can
appreciate this supposed to be it's
supposed to be delusions all the way
through and she's she doesn't know what
she's doing she thinks she she's found a
good soul but not not so much although
he does seem to love her no I do love
they're they're sort of courting the
scenes with them like out on a date
they're in like this this like tacky
olds like it's like an old person supper
club which of course yeah Fairfield's
got to have a few of those yeah well
it's so great cuz it's like there's
barely anyone else there and it's all
old people like well Norman wouldn't
know where to take her of course not
this is probably a place that his mom
went to in the 50s so that's what he
knows but then he's like teaching her
how to dance and it just cuts to the the
guy playing piano and he's just like I
just cussed him for like a second yeah
we were little touches like that yeah
and then she pointlessly dies yeah I I
will say that I like the movie but the
third act then has kind of fizzle out
can we say something about those fucking stairs and how that how it takes that until the 4th movement or someone actually properly fall down them
what is it with those fucking stairs
again it works in the first movie because number
one he's already been cut yeah and it's
like a dream in the third movie when it
happens just like it looks bad it's very
abrupt yes it's just like we needed to
do this right it felt like the exorcism
and Exorcist 3 it's just like we have to
do that I just put it in there yeah and
then you know put all sorts of sharp
little things poking up at the bottom of
the stairs so like whoops yeah but yeah
it's it's a bummer
generally speaking to me like because
it's it's I want it to be better than it
was you know I wanted to it's it's tough
coming off a psycho - because psycho -
is a generally good sequel yeah it was
you know way better than had any right
to be and this this feels like what
psycho could of psycho - could have been
psycho 3 from us definitely from a story
perspective it feels like a more kind of
typical generic sequel yeah it's all the
weird choices that they make that make
it interest is that especially the
visual style and love the lead-up so
when he goes into Marines room and this
is really the first time we've seen him
like dressed up his mother since the
first movie right and it happens pretty
quick it's just like oh he's he's doing
this again
yeah but there's like a shot of the
knife and it's like turned in a way
where it looks like you're looking under
the crack of a door but then he turns
them you realize it's the like the
glimmer of the light on the the blade of
the knife yeah that's a fantastic like
things like that there's lots of cool
stuff like that yeah yeah my issues
really er the story of the acting that's
fair I mean Anthony Perkins yeah not
great in the movie no I mean that's like
that's what I've been talking about this
whole time is this the level of empathy
for all these characters and yeah three
doesn't really provide us with a lot of
people to care about you know I care a
little about Jeff Fahey cuz he's a fucking nut
his job on Herman fresh is the dish was
cropped just like his plan is to extort
Norman and get money from this rundown
hotel off the highway he doesn't know
what he's doing what he's doing get
money wherever he can yeah I lied I
loved his death guitar and he's lost his
mind in that scene I don't know if he's
drunk or what but or if it's just bad
direction but well like sweaty and like
the purple lighting is still going on
they say I feel like it's a panic thing
because he's found out like he's gotten
mrs. spools down from the house into his
room yeah so like I feel like he's
panicking him like he's kind of pushed
into a corner almost and he feels like
that's the way he's gonna get out of it
is to threaten Norman which bad idea son
yeah I love in that scene to there's
like a Woody Woodpecker cartoons playing
on TV but someone gets killed on the
toilet that's a fun Friday the thirties
the only one who's not drunk
it is sort of weird like the the first
woman gets killed in the phone booth and
I like that scene like I mentioned it
reminds me is like an Italian movie yeah
never mentioned again doesn't really
have any purpose other than just reading
a slasher movie now event normally was
killing people yeah and then he kills
the woman in the in the bathroom who
they put in the ice chest yeah well
somebody has to you're not gonna let him
go that that's where it's like that's
clearly the Coen brothers influence but
that's sort of like McCobb humour yeah
but yeah like she's really like the
motivations you know even then Norman
doesn't need a ton of motivation is it
just that she's a woman and she's around
yeah oh he kills yeah yeah like I get
why he kills the girl in the phone booth because she's a whore
but this one
that's on the down the toilet in the
parlor she's just around she's yeah
she's not rabble-rousing like everybody
else in the hotel but reliving this
football game or something
I don't know what the fuck
they're there for homecoming
yeah
but they're all old
yeah
I don't know what's going on there she's
just like I just need somewhere to piss
oh I'm dead is not fair no that's that's
why we say this feels more like a
conventional sequel where it's like well
now he has to kill someone because
that's what you do because maybe the
killing at this point in the in yeah
movie yeah I like him disposing of the
body afterwards though there's that
great really low angle shot when he
throws her out the window yes and her
face falls like right into the camera
there's the green light from the
borrower yeah again the visuals yeah
those hold up it's worth a watch for
sure it has my favorite line in any of
the movies I've seen it worse so it's a
weird little movie that I enjoy even
though I know it's not a good psycho
sequel yeah worth watching for Jeff
Fahey you can I was comfortably ignoring
kind of the rest of the day new mathy
and like I mean it's important that
Norman is able to free himself of mother
again yeah you know fine whatever but
the whole thing like where he's got
Maureen set up on the on the couch with
the candles and the reporter comes and
it's just like man
yeah yeah you know it doesn't feel like
the movie was building to anything know
which is a problem and then you've got
that whole reset of the reporter
charging him and explained like it
wasn't she's not your mom it was she's
crazy yeah setting the whole end of the
last movie just like it feels really
forced just like who cares mother that
matters yeah she could have been his mom
the whole time that doesn't change
anything that happens to Norman right
yeah you know still has a weird mommy
issue yeah that he fixes again and he
frees himself again right I do like that
last bit in the car when he's well first
of all the the the sheriff comes back at
the end and he's like you're not getting
out ever now he's so disappointed in
Norman really everybody was rooting for
him but then yeah Norman's in the car
and he's just got the severed hand in
his pocket and he's petting my other
okay very goofy yeah but that's another
one too or like everything goes dark and
it feels like a like a stylized yeah
yeah yeah that's right because like the
background goes dark and then the rest
of the car goes dark and it's just his
face for a minute
you
and the story goes that with psycho for
which was a mate for Showtime movie yet
Anthony Perkins wanted to direct that as
well someone didn't want him to direct
whoever was in charge didn't want him to
ever seen psycho 3 well visual
standpoint psycho 3 he's great maybe one
maybe wanted some performances but they
didn't want him directly hired McGarrett
Stu directed the character actor of
directors Mick Garris Mick Garris who
seems like a very lovely man yes he has
a podcasts he's responsible for keeping
a lot of these horror filmmakers kind of
in communication with each other
yeah but he is also possibly the most
boring filmmaker ever every movie he
does is just so bland now here's the
critters to is is best movie and that's
a problem well I'll agree with that
pretty was definitely his best movie but
I honestly I like the direction of this
of psycho for there's really fun shots
and really nice shots I'm thinking of
shots like when Norman and his mother on
the picnic and he's talking about her
hair that's one of the positive memories
and they do the shot from from from his
perspective of Olivia Hussey like with
the hair trailing down like that's a
mean shot that's a cool little touch and
that's something that doesn't feel like
it was in the script necessarily she
could shoot that I mean any number of
ways yeah or the way that he layers
current Norman into the flashbacks oh
yeah there's a couple of bits with that
when he shows up at the funeral but I
feel like nobody has seen the psycho for
so we should probably set it up a little
bit which is it's basically it's like
half sequel half prequel right
I think it's ignoring two and three it
is it has to be right because it's the
same screenwriter from the first one
yeah they brought back Joseph Stefano
yeah and he was just like fuck all that
I can still tell my story just just all
riffing off the first movie yeah which
is fine it works fine it's oddly
structured it's it's Norman is calling
into this like late-night talk show all
I've killed before
and now I'm gonna have to do it again
he's totally calling into the the studio
from Oliver Stone's talk radio yes like
that they even do the like going around
yeah like the the mic scene at one point
yeah circular camera it's like I've seen
this before but so that sort of leads
into flashbacks to him and his mother
and it just all feels very unnecessary
it's it's a problem that most prequels
have or it's like we don't need to see
those yeah like a steam Oh PLC as the
mom is great and Elliott from et Henry
Thomas Mary Thomas yeah that's what
really gets me by on this movie is just
like it's really everybody the actors
I'll do a fantastic job and they really
I think bring a lot of life even John Landis
fucking John Landis
John Landis shows up because it's directed by Mick Garris and he likes to put director cameos in
it's almost more than a cameo though
he's it's a figure and he doesn't
have a lot of dialogue but he's always
there he's always hanging out in the
background yeah behind Warren Frost's
yeah and CCH pounder yeah that's like
her old wash it's great she's like one
of those people that just kind of shows
up in something yeah she elevates
whatever small role she has absolutely
that's other we can talk about the weird
kind of setup because it starts off
there and the topic is mother killers on
the late-night talk show and so we've
got a guy that killed his mother her
last words were you'll never amount to
anything
I mean I'm a murderer I killed my own
mother is that a mounting there's
something or what and then Warren Frost
who's playing this doctor that
specializes in matricide well he's
playing the guy from the end of the
first movie right which I didn't even
pick up on until I was listening to like
the commentary or something oh he
doesn't mention it yes I think even that
I didn't put it together I don't make
that connection at all but he's the guy
that is the exposition dump at the end
of the first movie yeah explains a few
things but the weird thing with that
setup is how it just peels off
characters from that from that set
pretty arbitrarily like none of them
really needed to be there it seemed like
yeah I guess it's just the setup of yeah
mother killers and we're gonna
he's a little bit of dialogue with this
guy at the beginning but he's not
necessary at all but no not really
he doesn't add a lot to it but he's
there I guess it's there to kind of
introduce Warren Frost but even Warren
Frost just stalks off in the middle of
the movie anyway
yeah he just vanishes well I mean Norman
doesn't want to talk to him so it makes
sense he's gonna leave because it's just
like there's that confrontation scene
where that's where the camera goes
around in circles yeah why don't you
stay out of this from here on in are you
asking me to leave no Ellen we'll make
you a cup of coffee
I'll tell the audience you're gonna
question a psychopathic killer without
professional help maybe that'll help but
the whole setup is that yeah norman
calls into this talk show it's just like
well I can tell you about you kill him
mom right just call me Eddie
which obviously is a sly little nod to
Ed Gein right kind of funny
yeah but he's calling from clearly this
different house he's not he's not at
Bates Motel anymore he's he's somewhere
else in this nice kitchen
he's married calls his calls his wife I
think that's part of my problem that is
like I just can't picture him in that
scenario it's a little weird I can't
picture him one married and having like
this normal domesticated you know maybe
this is I mean you're supposed to ignore
two and three so but if you just look at
it like the first movie and then this is
20 plus years later you're like oh I can
happen between then I guess but you
don't even really have to because you
can look at you can look at that
evolution between three and four is like
in three he's got a girlfriend yesterday
that doesn't quite work out but by four
he's ready to have only that and also
calling into this talk show and just
like spilling his guts about all this
stuff like he's trying to stay under the
radar like well I'm more comfortable
with that because he's very recently
found out something and he's discovered
that he's discovered essentially that
he's good to have to kill somebody again
oh sure really against his will what did
she do that she should pay for it with
her life she let herself get pregnant
but his logic for why he feels like he
has to is very solid
sure he's extremely concerned that he's
going to perpetuate more madness he's
100% convinced that its genetic and what
whatever child he would have liked the
bloodline has to end with him and so
that's a lot of the back and forth in
between the the flashbacks which I
generally liked the movie feels like a
clip show like a TV episode clip show
but it's clips of something that we
haven't seen before obviously yeah but
it's like either do a prequel or do a
sequel and it kind of like the there's
there's there's not enough of the
prequel stuff to be its own movie right
there's not enough of the new stuff to
really be its own movie so it's tough
there's this kind of like back and forth
of like it doesn't feel like either
the prequel or the new stuff is building
to anything more so with him the the the
current day stuff does cuz he's talking
about you know his wife and possibly him
to kill his wife that's true but I feel
like that's where the balance kind of
gets tilted the wrong way hmm
because I think it really does balance
it pretty well throughout I mean it's a
it's a dumb excuse to have these
flashbacks you know it's just a
framework yes whatever but my flashbacks
really I mean they're they're
informative to us as people that know
the psycho Syria but as far as the story
in the movie they don't really add much
to what the actual story is his wife I
feel like it's supposed to be kind of
disjointed along with like the radio
breaks and they always you know he's
whenever they'll cut back to current day
torn from a flashback like he's not
holding the phone so like I don't if he
was like dropping the phone mid like
flashback or whatever but like it feels
like it's supposed to be sort of
disjointed to me um and I think it
really like the build-up to Norman poisoning his mother
and Chet
fucking Chet
guy's an asshole
oh Chet
I get it
fuck you Chet
you only wanna be naked around a lady when you're having sex with her
any other time just ain't respectful
it's good toast
well his name is Chet first of all
step one
yeah
never trust anyone named Joe
the only chet I like is from weird science
well but he's an asshole, too
that's why he gets turned into a giant piece of shit
hi, dudes
the way it leads up to the to the matricide and everything and the way that they really draw her treatment of Norman and his character and his burgeoning sexuality
yeah
and just how she fucks with him it's it's a little
heavy and like it makes sense
it's gross yeah I mean she's she's
fantastic initials like does that switch
off between loving and domineering so
effortlessly it's a little weird I'm
assuming you haven't watched the Bates
Motel TV show no it's it was a little
weird revisiting this movie after that
because that's five seasons of building
up that relationship and it's so I like
the show a lot it gets better in the
later seasons but it's so their
relationship is so complex and so
fleshed out that re watching this movie
it feels like a much inferior version of
that relationship because Olivia house
he does kind of have two modes basically
but again I'm comfortable justifying
that in that it's Norman's retelling
they could they could have played that
more to like almost a contrast between
his telling of what happened and then
also showing like what it really was
yeah and maybe discrepancy there like
that could've been interesting no and
depending on if you count to as three as
Ken as Kenny on the fourth one there's
definitely like discrepancies there like
and the fourth one her his father was
stung to death by bees oh yeah and they
thought there's in the second one they
talked about a whole different way that
he died or like or he's killed I miss
miss mrs. Poole's yeah and like you've
got you know there's like if you're
looking at it as a whole Canon there's a
ton of discrepancies there yeah so you
can't look at it that way that's true
but I think I I think it really is is is
is so carried by the the acting Thomas
is really good too every Thomas is
fantastic so first time or from the TV
show that's that's all I can compare it
to now after that all right fair enough
CCH pounder yeah is like and that whole
balance there and I think that's what
really carries
and that's why I think the balanced kind
of falls off when Norman signs off from
the from the radio show and is about to
had take his wife to two mother's house
to kill her the movie could have ended
there and I would have been satisfied
cannae there's a chase you know through
down up and down than the fruit seller
and she finally she's about to burst out
of there the fruit seller but Norman's
there and comes down catches her in
about to kill her
yeah and she finally actually this is a
really good speech it's just like don't
my genetics matter don't I matter
I think another problem is like that
would be a great scene if her character
was built up throughout Shore the movie
yeah and that that whole ending feels
like wow we've sent most of the movie on
these flashbacks so we haven't built up
this relationship that's a problem so
and I think that's my problem of the
whole movie is that sort of like
imbalance of everything I could agree
with that I can see why there's good
idea isn't it yeah and yeah then then he
then he starts bringing the house down
and starts having visions of mother and
Chet what's the matter Norman you're not
a girl are you
but finally escapes and the houses bring
down and everything's cool and they
leave and the cuts to black the babies cry
leading us into psycho five
no
no
we're done
we're done
we're done
but yeah
I think I liked I liked psycho for a lot more than you did
I really I normally
got his empathy back even though his you
know obviously it's an insane person's
logic but it's still logical that he at
any cost has to stop the bloodline yeah
in his head you know that's a good story
to me yeah and that's that's only like a
little more a little less than half of
the movie sure
so the flashback stuff but yeah
unfortunately at that point tony perkins
was was unhealthy and one of his last
movies i think he did like three or four
more movies after those that was kind of
it yeah so that's unfortunate but that
kind of I assume was one of the factors
that that led to the end of it although
they certainly could have done another
movie without him if we were you know
he's passed on but the baby's grown up
and is the baby crazy no I think you man
like a remake or something which thank
God they never did know that wouldn't
that would be weird that'd be a terrible
idea yeah yeah I'm just you know finding
whatever lady actor was known for having
a blonde short haircut at the time like
that would be really stupid and like
completely miss casting Norman Bates
yeah both cavities 12 vacancies well
that'd be horrible idea it probably
isn't you could get Julianne Moore
though I'd be a good idea go see how
chambers see their deputy sheriff around
here that me can i walkman
she actually he's good in that movie
well I'm not surprised you could never
see she makes that character more
interesting than in the original yeah
but I think watch was suddenly hinting
hinting that she's gay - who Sam Loomis
omegle Mortensen oh yeah there's a minor
aspects of that movie that are
interesting pluses and some minuses
they're mostly minuses oh yeah I could
not bring myself to watch that maybe you
don't need to you've seen the first
movie yeah you've seen the good version
thank you yeah oh she's bad in it I do
think though would that movie the girl
stand sentry make because everybody says
like oh it's so pointless and it is it's
a shot-for-shot remake yeah I kind of
feel like that was his intention though
yeah cuz he famously said when they were
like why are you remaking psycho his
answer it was something like so no one
else can wear it's like almost like
because he was using you know this pants
and has made these some weird little
movies some sort of experimental things
like Jerry or like well she's elephant
yeah but this was like right after a
Good Will Hunting so we had a little bit
of clout from that and I think he kind
of used it to make this sort of
statement about like pointless sequels
about this pointless remakes because
yeah you can you can you know it's a
shot-for-shot remake it's using the
exact same script but it feels like such
a different movie you can't do the exact
same movie and get the same end results
like no matter how closely you try and
replicate it so I think it was like some
sort of like experiments on the studio's
dime where it was like intended to fail
huh I'm not I'm not trying to like
justify Gusman Sam cuz it is terrible
but I always I've always wondered like
it was that his goal was just like I'm
gonna intentionally make a terrible
remake to show like this is why you
don't do this yeah too bad it sucks I'm
gonna have to watch it Vince Vince
Vaughn is so bad as norman i think only
birds look well stuff because um they're
kind of passive to begin with wasn't
elijah wood available no you'd have been
good yeah you would have been like like
teenager at that point yeah go for it
yeah that's fine yeah yeah so generally
speaking I this was my first time going
through the the sequels all three of
them and I definitely enjoyed watching
all of them yeah it's an interesting
franchise that most people don't think
of as a franchise and we didn't even
really talk much about the TV show but
no I like the TV show quite a bit it's
it's it's not like it takes place in
modern day it's not trying to you know
be like a time Pete like like it's a new
updated version of that story okay
with them in modern times okay but their
relationship Vera Farmiga is great on it
and Freddie Highmore the fourth and
fifth season because the first few
seasons there's a lot of kind of like
completely uninteresting side stories
like the B plots I don't know really
good just get back to Norman and Norma
because that's the interesting stuff so
by the time you get to like the fourth
and fifth season it's focused completely
on them and they're they're greats and
it's really interesting and well fleshed
out so nice little kind of jolts back
into the life of the psycho franchise
cool yeah it's it's you know obviously
psychos a great movie but the sequels
are are more interesting than they're
often given credit for it yeah pop
psycho - he'll be fine yeah
