Mar 24, 2018
Freddy Got Fingered
youtube.com/watch?v=gEn3wcpNsg8
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/977536006307139584
redlettermedia.com/freddy-got-fingered-review

well Mike we're here to talk about the
2001 comedy Freddy got fingered a film
that has been mostly forgotten and holds
no cultural impact whatsoever you could
say it was the second worst thing to
happen in 2001
well it's time to talk about Freddy got
fingered a movie is bound to happen
eventually right it's going to happen
yeah um a movie that I used to both love
and hate simultaneously but upon
re-watching it I have a whole new
perspective on this film which I'll
share with you okay okay all right and
our audience great but J I think we need
to talk about who Tom Green is to our
audience who may not be familiar yes
yeah there's we have to put this movie
into context because if you were not
between the ages of like 16 and 23 in
the year 1999 Tom Green means absolutely
nothing to you
he was super super popular for just that
brief window to the point where it's
almost I would almost call it a fad
unless though then someone who was
famous and then there their fame kind of
died out I
he had his show in Canada public access
sure I think so just some sort of local
comedy channel n oh yeah Glenn hump leg
a name I have not thought about since
2001 but yeah they doing goofy comedy
stuff very basically just like a
celebration of stupidity just unbridled
unapologetic stupidity
they're like the Eric Andre show at all
I would say the things like like Tim and
Eric or especially jackass like came out
after that we're all sort of it all kind
of started with Tom gur yeah yeah and so
MTV said what's this this crazy let's
give him the show and then there's the
famous tape the VHS tape that's green
that oh yeah which I think everyone had
everyone had that tape yeah which was a
lot of stuff from his Canadian days and
he did a lot of man-on-the-street stuff
you're my mom no not your mother
free Billy Eichner miss for a dollar
name three white people go three white
people yeah oh yeah Tom Green is a
trailblazer for annoying comedy like
going around on the street annoying
people
why won't you ask me on court
he had his show a peak movie he married
drew Barrymore um he was in the
Charlie's Angels movie as a cameo yeah
and then Huebel well and then it was he
was a supporting role in the movie road
trip which is one of those terrible
early 2000s comedies and that was sorry
he was like the John Belushi of that or
he's like a supporting character but
everybody liked him in it and so then
the the Hollywood execs came Colin
they're like we don't we don't
understand you but clearly the kids like
you give you a movie do whatever you
want
and the results are Fred got fingered
yeah I mean we could do a whole show on
Tom Green's career the the anomaly that
it is yeah the fascinating anomaly that
it is because it's not just I'm a
comedian I'm doing this like I said an
had with Andy Kaufman kind of vibe to it
where it's like what are you doing what
is this real is this not yeah doing this
and Freddy got fingered falls into that
category because this after watching it
Freddy got fingered is both awkward
uncomfortable terrible but at the same
time it's hilarious to where I left but
I can and I can't stop laughing and I
can't breathe well is that more like it
almost feels like the movie itself is
the joke well yeah that's that's another
face you about today yeah Jay is the
vibe I get from the movie is and I don't
know if this is intentional or not it is
a man who lost a bet and the bet was you
have to make a Hollywood movie yeah
where he's almost forced to do it and he
doesn't want to but let's the other
going back to context the other thing
you have to keep in mind is when this
movie came out which was the height of
the late 90s early 2000s gross-out
comedies which kind of
drew into popularity with like the
Farrelly Brothers there's something
about Mary and then there was all the
imitations of that's you had like
American Pie and then and then it
started to go down to like the ones that
nobody remembers anymore like say it
isn't so with Heather Graham and Tom
cats all these terrible terrible
gross-out comedy there's a David Spade
wonderful dog oh yeah that's directly
just stealing from Something About Mary
with the cute little dog and I think
that's that the gross-out comedy fad is
part of the reason why a lot of stuff
slip past studio executives oh yeah I
kind of touch
old old guys who are just like people
like this gross stuff he's putting a
deer carcass on him yeah and licking the
exposed broken bone okay well that's
that's a case of lots of people like the
Farrelly Brothers formula was doing
these kind of outrageous gross out
things mixed with sentimentality and all
the knockoffs of that tried to replicate
that and did it terribly and the Freddy
got fingered movie is like taking those
two extremes the sentimental stuff and
the gross out stuff as far as possible
to the point of absurdity
yeah he takes I mean the story is very
simple almost to the point of being
satirical Tom Green plays Gord Gordy
good a man who wants to draw cartoons
he's got the dream and he's got the
disapproving father not stupid
they're not stupid he wants to live out
his dream but Gord is the most unlikable
protagonist that you could possibly
imagine he's selfish he's stupid and
he's insane and you don't you don't care
like this the the family gives him a car
he has he has a younger brother titular
younger brother Freddy Gord gets a
little barren and I don't that's because
they love me more than they love you no
no no they don't
I only see one LeBaron Freddy I only see
one I don't see two LeBaron Gord gets
all the attention then they give him a
car to drive off to LA default to follow
his dreams I'm gonna make you so proud
made you daddy proud proud
right right after this this overly phony
sentimental moment with his dad or they
just keep saying the word proud over and
over and over you make your daddy proud
I'm gonna make you proud daddy I'm gonna
make you so proud make your daddy proud
you're gonna be so proud brown proud
we need to extrapolate on that scene
though because it's so it's so
convoluted and I wonder how much of it
is intentional which is Gord he lives at
home with his parents he lives in their
basement
so at the beginning of the movie it's
him like laughing at his own cartoons
which almost feels kind of self
reflexive just in a room by himself
laughing at his own stupidity so he's at
home where his parents live he leaves
home on his skateboard
to meet his parents at the bus station
to get on a bus to Los Angeles I just
parents bought the ticket for my bus is
about to leave so I'm gonna get on it
and I'm gonna leave on it
wait you're not taking that bus to Los
Angeles Los Angeles I don't know why he
didn't just go there with his parents
because they're going to the same place
from the same place and then they so
they give him his ticket and he's about
to get on the bus and they say wait we
bought you a car it's like why didn't
you just give him the car if the house
like nothing about it makes any sons and
I'm wondering how much of that is
intentional because I don't think and
that's the thing and talking about like
this movie and like the weirdness of it
and it kind of breaking down the formula
of these kind of late early 2000s
comedies like I don't know how clever
town green actually is it's based on all
evidence of interviews and material
related to them I don't think he's that
clever I think a lot of this movie is
unintentionally interesting I'm gonna
say the opposite no I'm gonna say two
words inclusivity writer
I mean I'm sorry secret genius because I
don't think I can give him that much
credit there are I noticed many meta
moments movie oh yeah there there's a
big one at the end Tom Green's goal is
to get a cartoon the the half zebra half
human yeah cartoon he gets it made or he
convinces the the cartoon executive any
michael hall yeah that this is this is
my idea and he's like I'm just gonna
this idea is great I wasn't even
thinking about writing a check today but
with that kind of creativity I'm
completely comfortable green-lighting
this fucking project I'm gonna write you
a check right now partner fur I don't
know how's a 1 million dollar sound to
you huh Tom Green takes that check and
he spends two hundred thousand dollars
on jewels the rest of the check he
spends on this elaborate thing to to cut
part of his parents house out and put it
on top of a truck in Pakistan yes and
smash it
and then there's a moment where he's
explaining to the construction guy the
construction foreman I got a check for a
million dollars and he's talking about
the movie because I had a million
dollars okay and there's been $150,000
on the jewels okay and they spent
$100,000 I rented a helicopter okay then
you had the $750,000 that's all my money
that's all my money gone there's a
million dollars gone easy come easy go
he's talking about the budget for the
movie I am making fun of the fact that
someone gave him a million dollars yeah
a million dollars to deuce to create
something with it
and he turned it into crap okay so let
me get this right you want to just barge
in a restaurant dressed like a fucking
English Bobby and expect someone to give
you a TV show I don't know yeah well
there's another moment like that that's
a little more blatant early on which is
he when he goes to LA he confronts
Anthony Michael Hall who's this cartoon
channel executive or whatever he's
supposed to be and they're outside of
this restaurant where he confronts him
and Anthony Michael Hall is looking at
his drawings the drawings are pretty
good but it doesn't make any sense okay
it's fucking stupid okay what you need
here is elevation okay there actually
has to be something that happens that's
actually funny what the fuck is
happening here which I have to imagine
that someone involved with the
production of the movie saying that to
Tom Green oh yeah it may even be because
there was originally another director
attached to it
who left's not because of like the
extreme gross-out stuff but he left
specifically over the the structure of
the story and the lack of characters and
then Tom Green just took over his
directors so it's almost like it almost
feels like that's probably verbatim what
that director was saying to Tom Green
mm-hm
it's like the that when the Jerky Boys
movie came out no one's that before I
probably or even liked the Garbage Pail
Kids movie yeah yeah but when you have a
concept and then like the Jerky Boys
movie is the perfect example you have a
concept that or you know then Tom
Green's
case of persona that you said oh how do
we make a movie from this yeah well
here's how you structure it the Jerky
Boys they make prank phone calls they
get into a wacky situation with the mob
because a prank phone calls yes yeah and
so Tom Green is like he took that and he
made this structure and he almost made
fun of that yeah well it does take the
formula of I mean it feels in a couple
of tweaks here and there
changing the humor and you would have a
typical like Adam Sandler vehicle the
the underdog the the the you know the
lovable loser but of course the lovable
loser in this case is not lovable at all
he's actually psychotic but I think a
problem for me is that there's a lack of
consistency there's some scenes where I
think you're supposed to genuinely be
sympathetic towards him nothing I've
always been nothing anywhere where it
doesn't feel like they're doing it in an
intentionally phony way but then other
scenes cease like completely psychotic
III had no likability for his character
and I'm okay with that okay I mean like
okay there there there are many many
many funny moments there's a there's a
few like legitimately funny comedy movie
type moments but a lot of it is is funny
and and kind of a detached way or you
have to think about like he put this in
a studio film right a studio gave him
money and he intentionally sabotaged it
because you have like the after that
opening scene where he get he's going to
Los Angeles for no reason
he sees a horse get an erection
and he jumps out of the car and just
starts jerking off the horse and then
the scene cuts and we move on and it has
nothing to do with anything pays off in
the end I guess it does kind of pay off
of the dad that's true but but it's not
like it's braces dead of elephant pays
off in the stupidest way but like the
fact that it just completely cuts from
that and then the movie just goes on and
you're like wait what like there's no
setup there's no payoff it's the exact
opposite of a typical kind of structured
comedic scene right I mean I had that
feeling like um Todd you're supposed to
do something weird now has your Tom
green and you do weird well that's why I
think a lot of it is unintentional is
like to me like I don't think Tom Green
is that clever I think it is just he
came up with a series of wacky things
you can do in a movie and then dropped
it into this very traditional kind of
mainstream comedy movie structure but
then there are other moments where you
feel like he's intentionally sabotaging
the movie like there's a part once he
gets to LA he goes to the offices of the
animation studio and he kind of barges
in there's a cameo by his then wife
through Barrymore but there's one
close-up of drew Barrymore in that
sequence where the color timing is
completely off his wife is dead and I
was thinking of like the the Andy
Kaufman thing where he had his TV
special I mean he intentionally fucked
with the vertical hold
is that because I've never seen that in
a movie where the color timing isn't
that wrong I was like did he just in in
the editing process did he say hey just
make this shot blue like it's so weird
yeah

let's talk about Rip Torn the great Rip
Torn who once in real life got so drunk
that he thought a bank was his house
my favorite torn story yeah yeah it's so
drunk he tried to break into a bank
because he thought it was the house that
he lived in yeah
rip rip torn god bless them the great
the great Rip Torn the fuck this is
constant like mumbling anger damn roast
beef or you can go to bed
it's so amazing how when he when he
swears at Tom green like the shower
scene when Tom Green is wearing a scuba
gear in the shower what the fuck are you
doing which at the tail end of that
scene I noticed when Rip Torn this is
another lake is this an intentional
error Rip Torn is walking out of the
shot and you start to see like the
shadow with a camera on him like the
camera was like right because it's a
small bathroom and you see him like move
to get like Oh out of the way the camera
and is like did they just leave that in
because Tom Green thought it was funny
or is he just a shitty filmmaker like I
don't know about that well I don't think
there's like that ending after glory
jerks off an elephant and sprays his
father with elephant come yes they Lang
in the desert and they have that that
moment or anything I just I just wanted
you to respect me you and I never really
see eye to eye but I learned something
dogs say that not just how to whack off
an elephant
I learned to believe in myself
I mean it's so so on the nose to where
it's just like a satire it's making fun
of the arc yeah the the father the
father character doesn't believe in the
son he wants him to get a job his stupid
little drawings or never got about to
nothing
not the end you did all this who made
all this money and do all this with your
little doodle sniff I want you to be
proud
in an Adam Sandler movie you would they
would expect you to take that emotional
moment serious yes and and it would be
acted differently Tom Green is like this
she's a dad he looks like a crazy person
yes any and so he knows probably just to
be like not acted that way but it's
almost like he's mocking the film itself
it's like and then I think now we need
to talk about the love interest because
that that to me is just fucking bizarre
well it's that's an element of the movie
that feels like a direct like that's the
type of thing you would see in a
Farrelly Brothers movie only in a
Farrelly Brothers movie they would give
that character some character yeah like
here she's just in a wheelchair and she
likes to be canes and she exists solely
to give Tom Green blowjob like it almost
feels like a and again I don't think
this is intentional but it feels like a
parody of the generic love interest yeah
yeah yeah type of movie well you're
forgetting one small element is that she
has a dream she's an amateur rocket
scientist yes she has a dream to have a
rocket-propelled wheelchair right which
which is a plot point because she
achieves the dream and I and that guy
that gives him the motivation to to go
back and try again with his drawings
right he's at his lowest point I mean
it's a perfectly structured script but
then there's that moment at the end like
he has all his money right his budget
his check yes and in with his money he
pays for a helicopter to fly by her
house and she uses on the roof and then
they have their moment
he's like he's like I have all this
money now I made it my drawings were a
success and she's like have a bag of
jewels for you their jewels Betty their
jewels
care about jewels I just wanna I just
want a second cock
she says it again yeah wanna stay home
the second time she says it it's either
the actress deeply embarrassed about the
line or her holding back laughter and I
cannot tell I'll say I always took it as
her supposed to be like this is the
emotional where she's like getting like
choked up in the movie yes yeah oh
you're talking about in the reality of
the film in the reality of the film
either the actress is just completely
ashamed and annoyed or she cannot stop
laughing yeah and and one side is sick
uncomfortable and awful and the other
side is she's in on the joke sure and
I'm not sure which one it is because I
could see him unsettling your line is I
just want to suck your cock it's such a
terrible line yeah to make that actress
say but if the intention is to it's a
parody how useless the female love
interest in these movies are and she
gets it that yeah she gets it and it's
funny well the thing is though when you
stand back and look at it as a whole it
is a structured like gross out comedy
where you have the down-and-out hero
whose father disapproves he has a love
interest the arc is he wants to become a
famous cartoonist yeah it has all those
points and so to me it just smacks of
satire yes max is making fun of those
kinds of movies because if if you said
Tom Green here just make a movie it
probably would just be nonsense so
whether or not someone came in and said
you got to do this this and this and
then I'll do that I'll do that but I'm
gonna do it like this and like the scene
you referenced where the guys like you
need structure they need a character you
need some stuff to happen it can't just
be nonsense which is drawings where
nonsense a magic not magic cat x-ray K X
ray cat yeah hi hi hi hi I'm x-ray cat
but I can only see through wooden doors
can only see through wood doors in there
well what's the point of x-ray Kentwood
then what is he
this is our villain you know and he's
the the guys trying to make sense of it
but it's just you can't it's like Tom
Green resisting the structure and making
fun of the structure and I think that's
exemplified in the opening scene when
Tom Green takes a skateboard through the
shopping mall okay it's basically life
your shopping mall is a structured
environment I am a man on a skateboard
that does not belong in your structured
world oh that's fair I think it's
symbolic and then it's metaphorical I
was gonna say Tom Green just thought it
would be cool to ride a skateboard
through a mall see we look at this film
in a different light Jay
well well speaking of the the parody
aspects and paradeen tropes there's the
the running gag with the next-door
neighbor boy Andy would you like a piece
of cake for dessert of course you can
have a piece of cake oh he's constantly
getting injured in a dumb slapstick
comedy you know you might have that
character that's like constantly getting
beat up but there's never any
consequences to that it's just oh he
gets hit in the head and ha ha ha and
then the scene goes on in a typical
movie that's what happens the first time
we see this fuckin kid at this movie he
trips and hits his head on the side of
Gords door
and it is so uncomfortable that's the
moment cuz I saw this movie in the
theater opening weekend and that's the
moment where the entire theater turned
on the film the entire audience turned
on the movie which made it funnier to me
and then it happens again later where he
actually gets a baseball to the face and
like his teeth are falling out that yeah
that that's a very clear parody of the
type of like running gag of like this
slapstick side character yes and to add
to my case this film's brilliant is the
you have that kid getting injured yeah
but at the end of the film he walks into
a carefully propeller and gets
obliterated
there's a point that we I know we've
told you about where that feels like a
studio note where they're like you can't
fucking kill the kid that'll turn to
nc-17 yeah so you have to have a TR add
some voiceover he says he's okay
as if that makes it better like it saved
them from getting an nc-17 rating does
it really make that much of a difference
I mean you still have a crowd of people
getting doused in the blood of a small
child that has been chopped up in
propeller play to me it ruins it I mean
obviously because Tom Green's intention
was yes this is a running gag where the
kid keeps getting injured yeah in
violent realistic way yes and then at
and then at the end you don't expect him
to become obliterated the entire crowd
is just covered in the little kid guts
and boy and that's how you're moving
yeah yeah I just remembered my other
meta moment
Dougie bruised further proves my case
when Tom Green tracks on Anthony Michael
Hall at the diner the restaurant yeah
which i think is called like like fancy
pants or it has some kind of like yeah
this is on the nose name yeah I'm like
inexplicably sitting a random extra
sitting at one of the tables who has a
cast on with a middle finger sticking up
really literally giving the middle
finger to the audience I never noticed
that I noticed that and it's and it's
like okay he's literally flipping off
the audience yeah it's a character with
the cast on and it's stuck like this and
I could have got seen but it's not a
character that's introduced or anything
it's just random it's it's interesting
it's what they call an easter egg so I
think Tom Green did not want to make a
movie he was told to make a movie now
and he said okay I'm gonna make a movie
and I'm just gonna make it fucking awful
yeah well that that guy the cast of the
middle finger could have been like
something Tom Green wanted to put in the
background just to see if anyone when
we're watching dailies would notice and
there's a weird bit of ADR in the famous
hospital bedroom scene could you keep it
down this is a hospital room and I'm
pregnant
I'm sorry ma'am I didn't realize that
you were pregnant so anyway Harlan
Williams off camera it's like a shot of
the Native American women that start
chanting it makes no sense but the ADR
is literally just Harlan Williams same
like wig wig wag wag WOM it's just like
nonsense works look it's in the movie
and it's like they just do that to see
if he could get it in the movie and if
anyone would notice but that whole scene
that that's probably the best scene in
the movie the vert the birth scene just
because it's so like it's not just oh
this wacky scene he's delivering the
baby there's no reason this pregnant
woman would be in this room with Harlan
Williams character who just has like a
broken leg and then across from where
these two overweight Native American
women that just start chanting for no
reason that's a case of like can I put
this in a movie I guess I can I think
just the amount of violence the amount
of violence and swearing the other
there's like this weird aggressive tone
to the whole movie
the title of the movie Freddy got
fingered is an allusion to child
molestation that say let's see what I
can get away with leans somehow nobody
noticed and he released this movie
nationwide where the title the movies
about fingering a little boy I guess the
joke in the movie it's not very
successful it's weird I think a lot of
stuff might have been cut with this
subplot because the whole idea is there
like a group therapy session and he
accuses his dad of molesting his little
brother so they they they take Freddy
away from the family and they put him in
this lake they call it like the
Institute for molested children or some
I wrote it down
oh you rubbed down good
and there's very little that it almost
feels like they treat it like Freddie's
a grown adult but they treat him like
he's a little kid yeah but it's so it
almost feels like they like cut out
anything cuz there's like if you watch
the behind the scenes stuff there was
more there okay but there's a bizarre
moment that I think might be commenting
on something traditional family
structure or something I don't even know
but they're at the sexually molested
children Institute and all these little
children that I guess were sexually
molested or watching the Texas Chainsaw
Massacre and then it hard cuts from that
to gourd watching like like my three
sons or Leave It to Beaver yes I believe
it to be like it's a hard cut and like
there's like some sort of weird
juxtaposition whereas like I think he
might be trying to say something here
but I don't know if it works I don't
know what he's trying to say yeah but
it's clearly an intentional cut from one
to the other
all these damaged children watching this
horribly violent film and the squeaky
clean sitcom yeah yeah yeah I don't know
quite what he's going for there but it's
something there are people that that
will genuinely defend this movie is like
a like a work of surrealist art it's
like I don't know if I can go it's
definitely a deconstruction of
mainstream comedy yeah I'm not gonna go
so far as to say it's like a surreal
masterpiece the the famous Roger Ebert
review of this movie that came out at
the time which I've always loved it
might be one of my favorite reviews he's
ever written but he says something along
the lines of like there may come a day
where this movie is seen as some sort of
surrealist statement but the day will
never come when it's seen as funny but
then later like a year later Tom Green
was in this completely forgotten movie
called stealing Harvard with Jason Lee
and that's like Generic studio comedy
and I remember his rebirth review of
that where he's like hey this movie's
generic it's forgettable sucks as hard
as I was on Freddy got fingered like I
remember it like I still remember it a
year later yeah
yeah and that's that's that's what's
interesting about it is he says it's not
funny I disagree yeah I laughs I think
sterically yeah it's sleeves in this
yeah you have to view it almost like
outside of the movie like it is sort of
like you're laughing at the fact that
this stuff is in a movie more so than
any like constructed joke
it's like that dinner scene where Tom
Green takes betty out to dinner oh yeah
and he's supposed to be at his new job
but but Rip Torn is there with his mom
and then it's a very sitcom dad I know
this is a little Timmy a little too mean
he's an employee he works at the company
he gets us food and stuff right Timmy
what the fuck is going on guard
what what's he doing there and then you
know one just goes crazy
well what happened they start arguing
and the waiter comes over and he's like
stop it
this is a fancy restaurant but I think
it's even called fancy right yes so it's
like it's like it's aware of what kind
of scene it is yeah and it's just
blowing it apart it's just like it's
like he throws a grenade into the scene
yeah I know what this scene is I know
how it's supposed to go but I'm going to
exponentially multiply now the dumbness
of that scene and almost to the point of
where it then becomes something new yeah
it becomes like you said outside of the
movie itself I know at one point a few
years ago Tom Green was talking about
wanting to do a director's cut which I
don't know what would be in there I want
to see more but I think I don't think
this movie is achieved the kind of like
cult status that would probably warrants
the company putting the money into doing
something like that yeah so I don't know
but yeah there's not even like a regular
blu-ray release of us just DVD I don't
think I don't think that it has enough
of a following or that that is possible
but I guess we're kind of recommending
it you have to watch it with very
specific set of eyes yes yes so go out
and buy Freddy got fingered everybody
and so you can get it from 99 cents on
Amazon get that going because we wonder
what the blu-ray of it let's see I
forget the the release the Schneider cut
nonsense justice league release the
green cut really he's the green cut of
Freddy got fingered
hashtag released the green cut yeah
let's do it
