Jul 25, 2018
Strange Brew
youtube.com/watch?v=nRJathIYgLQ
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/1022088742960607233
redlettermedia.com/strange-brew-review

kukuku hi I'm Jim and I'm Colin we're
sitting here with our studies of
Elsinore what I can't believe you got
these where did how are you able to get
these beer these have been around for
years no they don't sell them anymore
I've had these since 1983 well for
anybody who has not seen this movie this
is you know the most Canadian of movies
I think sure two characters stars Bob
and Doug McKenzie the Mackenzie brothers
two characters who started off in the
television show SCTV which was
originally a Canadian show second city
television mm-hmm and it started out I
think it ran from like 1976 to 1984
something yeah this very um and this was
like a comedy breeding ground I don't
know how like how popular was in the US
but in Canada I grew up you know you
loot everybody I was it was our Saturday
Night Live I wasn't even know where
Americans knew about it until later on
so recently yeah probably but I mean
this like show for people who haven't
seen the show like SCTV had John Candy
you had Joe Flaherty Catherine O'Hara
Martin Short Rick Moranis Eugene Levy am
i leaving everybody out
Martin oh my god can't believe you had
to yell that but yeah it was like this
breeding ground for like the most
amazing Canadian comedians at the time
Lawrence you were telling us you're
still in school right Oh Alex
postgraduate work no high school third
season Rick Moranis joined and he and
Dave Thomas started writing a lot John
Candy Andrea Martin and a bunch of the
other actors returned for the third
season because it was getting really
good press and NBC picked it up right
that was a sort of first exposure in the
u.s. I think in Canada sctv was 26
minutes on NBC and it syndicates it was
24 minutes and they would you know they
would have so much of a buffer of
commercials but the Canadian
Broadcasting Corporation in Canada CBC
the government-run broadcaster had two
extra minutes and they went up to the
CTV gang said look we need two extra
minutes we need some can con which is
government mandated Canadian comedy and
content certain percentage of the show
has to be specifically Canadian right
representing Canada Canada theat
canadian themed on SCTV the show was a
half an hour long and they wanted two
minutes to be Canadian so we said well
what does that mean what what is less
Canadian about us doing what we're doing
than what you want us to do we're doing
the show in Canada we're from Canada
where we are Canadians they said you
know we sweep Dave Thomas and I finally
said what do you want us to do he wants
to put on tux and parkas and sit around
and fry up back bacon a and drink beer
and they said yes that'll be fine
so we did it it wasn't enough that
Canadian show shot in Canada with a
Canadian crew with Canadian cast written
by Canadians wasn't Canadian not right
exactly yeah yeah that's yeah because
there's so many to million aliens in
sctv I think Andrea Martin is maybe the
only American Harold Remus right but he
had left the show by the third right
okay so they wanted to over over the top
satirize what it what it's like to be
Canadians so kind of as a joke all those
clich√©s and stereotypes that you can
think of in today's topic was yeah okay
this is Canadian beer right and like
here's a regular top and you open it
right but American ones only don't have
any ready to twist off you ever seen him
yeah I have I was talking which is
really like Northern Ontario like sort
of I'm not gonna say backwards but rural
Northern Ontario sort of accent and
we've run into people who talk like that
absolutely yeah it's like you know
people say like Canadians talk like that
I think it's sort of the American
equivalent would be the sort of American
self like the kind of southern redneck
stereotypes yeah I'm this the statement
mm-hmm could get my Canadian citizenship
revoked let's hear the statement I was
never a fan of really watch sctv know I
loved se TV
because I you know why and this is true
I found out this in the past couple of
days doing research but I always felt
that it was just like the sort of lame
improvisation which it was it was just
fill in time yeah which is and now it
all makes sense okay so what I always
kind of skip it because you know I kind
of like the the scripted stuff right you
know any time Bob and Doggett come on
man it's just gonna be them rambling
gonna talking monster and the credits
would tend to roll over yeah exactly and
they sort of keep talking I like the
fact that they were improvising because
they were good at improvising and I mean
it was always funny it was they were
just kind of bumbling slobs
yeah drinking beer like I guess the idea
of the characters were funnier to me
than the actual yeah skits
I sure holy jeez five five percent
alcohol keepers cue ball what's it
what's America what what's American beer
oh less the the way they chewed it is
the entire crew everyone went home and
just moved one guy to manage the camera
they would just like sit around it would
actually drink beer yes sort of riff
yeah and then they would get their two
minutes on CBC was happy these
characters the popularity like shot
through them yeah and they came out with
an LP the difference between like the
album and our show is it like you can't
see us right so what you might want to
do is look at the front cover while
you're while you're listening to this
look at me now oh no just look at me
don't look at him I'll get out zoom in
on me oh no you can love it going it's
me Doug okay good day everyone that's
sold like a million copies a Geddy Lee
from rush on it singing a song called
take off
I found it on YouTube and I listen to a
take-off and I meet it about four
minutes yeah there's a four second
mortgage I'm like four seconds a minute
I can't couldn't do it yeah Rick Moranis
felt bad about the whole thing because
they were getting the the spotlight it
was almost like to the point where is
overshadowing cheering else on the show
and I think like that caused a lot of
tension in the cast members stuff like
that nice think you know they even had a
parade for them in Toronto yeah okay cuz
of the success of the album Hollywood
came calling yeah and Hollywood in one
format when you look at the film there's
they say a really this is such a bizarre
cast in this film from everyone from Mel
Blanc to Mexico it's very strange
okay so yeah it's about the McKenzie
brothers it was it the opening titles
are actually The Adventures of them yeah
because they make their crappy movie
they make their own homemade movie and
somehow it opens up with like a kind of
movie in a movie it was the only one
left on the planet after the Holocaust a
go the earth had been like desura stayed
by nuclear war like Russia blew up the
US and u.s. flew a brush a statue
Liberty that actually opens on the MGM
lion
that's right kind of burping and then
it's a real lion the camera comes there
and it's a real lion that they've
obviously been sedated because they're
playing with its tail and stuff it's not
doing anything like turn away just doing
it I was actually like yeah Dave Thomas
is actually winding the lion's tail and
then it's like so yeah movie within a
movie and then you realize that well
they show they're showing their movie
which is their home they made a terrible
sign - yeah and somehow they've managed
to have a premiere at the University
Theatre
yeah I love how they got a premiere at
the University Theatre in Toronto which
at the time was like the biggest like
Dolby surround sound Art Deco beautiful
theater this is the theater yeah my
favorite theater and I wasn't even
living in Toronto at the time but we'd
go down to the University and did you
see both movies or was this is the one
that I saw Empire Return of the Jedi you
too and all three Indiana Jones focus
right
so now you know and they run out and
they run into the alleyway they're just
like turning it that's the alleyway
where the blue line does yeah so so as a
kid that was like oh my god this is
amazing
and now the University Theatre in
Toronto is a Pottery Barn and the movies
are terrible so they go home and they
drink like the last to Elsinore beers
and the dad is like yelling at them who
has played who is played by Mel Blanc
voice only voice only so they they
wanted Mel Blanc for the voice and then
I guess the contacted his agent his
agent was like yeah it'll be ten
thousand dollars an hour
that's his fee and you have to pick him
up in the limousine and then they told
that to the producer of strange brew and
he's like out of the question that's
absurd and then
I think I like Dave Thomas like said to
the producer okay yeah we've talked to
his agent we're gonna get him for the
whole day for $10,000 he was like oh
okay great
and then Mel Blanc came in and then he
just did all of his lines in under an
hour and left that they just sort of the
slides of the producer because he felt
like he had gotten a better deal
we found this mouse in a bottle of
Elsinore beer that we bought it you're a
beer story and we heard like when that
happens that you get your beer free it's
in the Canadian Criminal Code a like
there's legal precedent setting cases in
law I was just gonna say like for you
know I mean everything has to has to be
plot driven or you don't really have a
story but I actually really like the
fact that the way the plot is driven is
by them trying to get scam and get like
every two to four right yeah two for
yeah they pull up to the the beer store
which back in the day was called
Serrano's retail yeah in Toronto it's a
very strange thing you've got the liquor
store you've got the beer store back in
the day your story was called Brewers
retail yeah everybody was on board for
this movie I think like Molson wanted
them to do ads well there's heavy heavy
product placement of beers behind them
an open shot with Molson golden Molson
Canadian Budweiser Labatt Blue probabl a
bat blue Iron Horse which I've never
heard horse yeah cool spring yeah so
they wanted the Brewers of retail on
boards right there we're gonna shoot
this and then as soon as everybody found
out about the gag where they put the
mouth of the bottle and tried to scam
free beer Moulson backed out everybody
backed out nobody wanted anything to do
with the movie so they're like fine
we'll call it the beer a beer store and
now all Brewers retail stores here is
called a beer store and it looks exactly
like the same logo from the movie yeah
probably not but they just happen to
have changed their name to the beer
store so so they try that they tried the
mouse game guys like get out of here go
to go to go to the brewery of the matte
painting yeah go to the matte painting
really good we got to talk about these
matte paint Matthew you're a chick is
the matte Marie Cini know your name
the brother of Richard yer chick who did
the Star Trek motion picture visual
effects tons of visual effects are you
serious yeah I didn't know that yeah oh
my god so I saw the HD remaster of this
I rented am I to go ahead and my god
these matte paintings yeah it's more
obvious you can say sure on the HD
version because everything you know if
film has like a natural kind of grain
and movement to it and everything it's
obviously just a painting and then
everything else is moving there's no but
there's a green there's a quaintness to
it though there's like matches the movie
yeah they were stunning than and you
didn't notice and then you found out
after it was kind of like I don't know
imbalanced or something yeah so yeah the
matte painting of Elsinore brewery
you've got Casa Loma and then they have
Elsinore brewery which is like a power
station in Toronto right yeah and then
the Royal Canadian Institute for the
mentally insane which is actually the
Marcy Harris well water filtration plant
yeah it's a water filtration plant yeah
which is an insane asylum as although
erease should have should have sure
right next door
which also played an insane asylum in in
the mouth of badness right it was the
insane asylum that Sam Neil's locked up
in that's right yeah so apparently Leo's
insane so they pull up to the brewery
they're trying to get their free beer
and they see this car is sort of like
trapped in the gate ventually it's real
that she's Pamela Elsa the heiress to
the Elsinore fortune she's just turned
21
John Elsinore sure she's 21 go on sorry
basically so the whole plot of the movie
is she's set to inherit the brewery the
uncle and Max von Sydow who plays
grandmasters master fly through master
Smith brewmeister Smith right he's sort
of taking control of the brewery and
what he's doing is he's putting like
mind control drugs and the beer right
and so he wants everyone to drink
Elsinore beer and then you can
mind-control them yeah and it's a
fantastic plan because the Elsinore
brewery is ray
next door to the Royal Canadian insane
insane royal commitment royal Royal
Canadian Institute for the Institute for
the mentally insane
so yeah max von sydow he gets all the
the mental patients over and he gives
him the beer he sort of like tests out
the mind control they play a big sort of
like hockey organ he's such a miserable
humorless character that you almost
wonder if there's some method acting
going on where max - like why did I
created this why it's like he's so
amazing it's so good it's such a like
polar opposite to the McKenzie brothers
like goofy antics and then when you see
the Max von Sydow parts it's like two
different films we move towards
Oktoberfest des Plantes again for some
reason he's got giant fake teeth and I
didn't know this I was watching the
first time I told you the next day I'm
like huh he does he have fake teeth like
they're just they're slightly yeah
slightly bigger but it totally impedes
is like the ways he's like I would
introduce my special four-wheeler to the
public not not really though like it's
kind of big but well you haven't seen
any Ingmar Bergman I haven't so I
wouldn't know yeah
I have seen the force awakens and he's
in that this will begin to make things
right
I mean max once he does a huge actor
like he's he's been not in all these
Ingmar Bergman films he was he's in Game
of Thrones force awakens you know he's
in force way he's in a movie called snow
falling on maximum Cedars with Ethan
Hawke
well this plan sucks I ain't going in
your tour I'll tell the old man you gave
away his beer money it's one of those
movies words you know it's not laugh out
loud maybe they're kind of like moments
more like amusing
yeah but the find the funniest thing for
me is just their performances as
brothers yeah like their interaction
together is so yeah fucking amazing and
it's so real watching them is so funny
yeah and so genuine and real at how much
they annoy the shit I don't want to know
their and especially Doug cuz he's the
older brother
yes goes out of his way to just make Bob
miserable and just you know just
flicking his ears or shoving them and
all this sort of stuff that you know I
recognize from growing up with my
brother yeah
well oh my god Bob is so kind of he's a
little more meek less confident I'm just
like yeah he's the kind of like
sweetheart see when they're on camera
and they're doing their thing and
they're improvising it doesn't matter
what's going on exactly as far as like
hilarious and endearing and I'd say them
and when Max von Sydow is on camera he's
just amazing he's great he's kind of in
his own movie he's making they're kind
of in their own thing big teeth another
character we meet along the way is Jean
Rosie love Rose Angus MacInnes plays a
key player who was gold leader in Star
Wars yeah he's gold leader red leader
this is gold leader
go later this is good leader and you're
starting my approach on this star it's a
good accent you looked him up I why I
saw this little clip with them and he's
now
well he's Angus MacInnes is like a
Scottish name right but he's like from
Windsor Ontario he's been in all sorts
of movies but he moved back to Scotland
and now he runs a pizza delivery service
because we know that Scottish pizza is
so good but no he's been a lot of
different roles he is it called gold
leader
pizza and then before he brings the
pizza to your house he's shot in his
truck explodes sorry we couldn't make it
in 30 minutes or free actually I don't
think Scotland would have a 30 minutes
or you know three pizzas even if I'm
late you want your pizza when no I don't
have any any pizza that's gonna take a
couple hours oh yes I mean we're done
with the pizza stuff
Angus MacInnes is Angus mink well okay
Angus me Angus you like haggis in your
pizza it's gonna be three hours okay and
Angus Angus MacInnes he was also a fuck
man of the gates in Eyes Wide Shut know
the gates of the big mansion so he's a
perfect yes okay he's in the TV show
Vikings he played a Viking never heard
of it fuck you Colin
my Elsinore beers finished oh my god
that wasn't meant to be drank that was a
prop yeah Jim have had this since 1983
so basically the whole movie is Max von
Sydow trying to stop Pamela from
inheriting the the plant right he wants
to keep it and also his teeth mm-hmm
what you want I won't go have giant
teeth in my mouth it's really good
character it's a good impersonation
that's how he talks with his teeth
brewery business has become very
competitive these days they're they're
trying to save all the asylum people
from being controlled I think they find
out about that later and I think Pamela
kind of wants to get the brewery back
because it's become too automated you
know she was saying my father used to
run this is like a family brewery and
now it's like you know it's all
automated without human beings yeah and
they sort of like show her the mouse in
the bottle and he's like go back when
when people were on the line this would
never happen right so Bob and Doug
actually get a job at the plant
so basically Max von Sydow basically his
whole like plot is he wants to get the
Mackenzie brothers and Pamela and her
friend out of the picture so he can like
take over the the brewery how people
drink the mind control beer and rule the
world
so there's an awesome car crash in the
movie it's like the Mackenzie brothers
have their brakes cut and their van like
crashes into Lake Ontario and it was
like the kind of highlight of all the
trailers and commercials there's a great
gag for the government water and they
realize that they've got all this sort
of under you know stubbies all the beer
bottles and stuff are like upside down
and they're just breathing air they also
looked like they're drinking beer as
well like an getting away with it but I
don't know how they shot that scene
because it must last for at least 15
seconds it's pretty long and they're in
there just and their windows are rolled
up as well and then the it's in the
scuba gear the cop like knocks on the
window yeah
and that is the cleanest that Lake
Ontario has ever looked it is a
nightmare it's a horror show
you can gonna hell I was gonna say
so max Grandmaster Bruce Smith flash
locks up Bob McKenzie and M Emily and
Pamela Pamela thank you are are locked
up in the keg I guess and they're gonna
suffocate he puts them in a keg in there
and then just started to drown his beer
when I was a kid and I saw this it
always bothered me that it's filling up
with beer
I I didn't notice anything and then
suddenly she's like did it just get warm
in here
and so Bob had to pee and he peed in in
the keg these reactions music what no
but then he has the idea that he's going
to drink his way out and I you know and
you see him in this big giant fat suit
and he's like you know five stories tall
and he drank all the beer and it's it's
a big gag but I always thought in my
head he drank his own pee
that's a big deal that's gross
where are you going Oktoberfest geez
I've had enough here for a while two
trucks full of that bad beer went there
this morning yeah so Bob drinks all the
beer
well Oktoberfest oh we're getting to
that so basically let me just do this
all right
Christ didn't wanted to talk about it so
long
it's either Bob or Doug has the idea oh
we oh we have a great idea I guess they
can't drive there in time like it's too
it's too far whose head hose head is
there dr. Doug and hose heads like I
think a black lab but unfortunately has
legs really gross mangy skunk stripes
white skunk stripes on them okay so when
you get there you can have all the free
beer and sausages you can eat
is this movie playing by its own rules
because this it's making up the rules I
think so because how is the dark flying
so we have a beautiful green screen shot
of hose housing flying and profile and
for some reason he has a red cape he
didn't have a red cape when they sent
him on his mission
he's Superdog now I guess sure it kind
of takes a turn into like the absurd at
this point you know they've probably got
this poor dog like propped up he's
clearly lying on avenged yeah it's some
studio with a green or blue screen
becoming tranquilized up like probably
the wire save some of the line and they
have a giant fan blowing in his face so
his cape is like fluttering around and
the Cape the Cape blows out for the dogs
like couldn't care less just like I like
how they have the dog laying in
Oktoberfest and everyone's like oh god
skunk
everyone clears the tent and hose-head
eats all the sausages so by the time
every all the cops and like Bob and Doug
and everybody arrived at Oktoberfest
everybody it's not everyone see
everyone's gone and no one's drank the
poisoned beer and hose-head saves the
day he's eating sausages exactly and
that's pretty much it and then it all
wraps up and Rosie and Emily are burry
Pamela get to they end up hooking up the
end of hooking up not on camera I wish
he eats a gold leader I'm starting for
the attack trench yeah you know I mean
there were other things it was like a
book that came out on the Mackenzie
brothers there was a kitten Mackenzie
brothers cartoon I didn't watch I tuned
went for oh you like the cartoon never
even finished my sentence didn't even
say I liked it or watched it you don't
have to so Cheers
