Jan 8, 2018
Star Trek Discovery mid-season
youtube.com/watch?v=DpHbLewg79c
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/950410529318809600
redlettermedia.com/star-trek-discovery-mid-season-review

well rich I've made my New Year's
resolution
it's to not talk about Star Trek Oh
somebody you want to talk about Star
Trek yes damn it
my friends it is a dark time for Star
Trek indeed despite being the best of
the Kelvin trilogy Star Trek beyond slow
box office returns has essentially put a
nail in the coffin of that franchise now
though we have official Star Trek in the
form of discovery a dark violent and
angry show with moody lighting and
mysterious characters and on the other
hand we have the Orville a non licensed
Star Trek show from the creator of the
Family Guy with bright even lighting and
sets that look like a holiday in
conference room and to put the cherry on
top of everything Quentin Tarantino is
currently producing a new violent are
rated Star Trek film called Star Trek
Unchained fans for the most part are
split and probably very confused
we're here to sort it out for you maybe
well rich here we are it's time for the
second half of the first season of Star
Trek Discovery to air it's early January
2018 and life couldn't be better
sure could what do you start where do
you start with Star Trek discovery where
do you start we heading the pilot and
I'm gonna say the single biggest misstep
discovery made was that pilot that pilot
didn't the show no favors it did not
introduce anything the show is kind of
like built around Michael Burnham as the
main character and that show basically
sabotages her from the start and I
watched the you know the third episode
the real pilot of Star Trek Discovery
and why didn't they start there if you
left her her background more vague and
mysterious I could have come to like her
before finding out about the horrible
mistake she has made because we had this
is the Battle of the binary stars
new Star Trek fans give a shit about the
Battle of the binary stars well that's
the thing I've I felt this after
watching start Star Trek the last Jedi
or whatever the fuck that movie was
called where they they basically took a
giant dump on Star Wars fans there there
is a mode of thinking if people like you
and I are soon to be obsolete dinosaurs
yes we're elderly we're we have one foot
in the grave and we long for a simpler
time of Star Trek the network's know
this the the movie movie companies know
this when it comes to Star Trek and Star
Wars the last Jedi killed off Luke
Skywalker it took a dump on everything
and made Yoda dance in a bikini bottom
it did everything - to tell you that hey
hey grandpa you ain't get no more
Skywalker or Yoda Darth Vader crap we're
thrown out in the garbage and we're
moving on and I think that's kind of
what discovery has done because you look
at it from the perspective of the Star
Trek fans yeah and as do I but I can
also see it from a different perspective
of I mean this is a lot of reiteration
of what we said before of modern-day
television and and we'll get into that
and that is also my problem with the
Orval and we're gonna get into that but
first let's talk quickly about the
critical to - fan disparagement in
reviews discovery sits at an 82%
critical approval and a 56% fan approval
the Orville is basically the polar
opposite 20% critical 93% isn't
interesting it is very interesting yeah
and why do you think that is rich I
don't know I I try I try my best to
divorce discovery from the idea of Star
Trek anime Star Trek this is this
beautiful idea where humanity is
prospered and they
you know the great unknowns of space and
wouldn't it be amazing to go out into
space and all of the wonders we could
find out there what's it what's there
and discovery doesn't give a shit about
any of that and it's like it just Star
Trek discovery does not give a shit
about what the heart of Star Trek is to
me and I got to imagine most of these
reviews aren't reviews from Star Trek
fans there's there's a camp that says
you know you've got to do something
different and watching Discovery I'm
watching it and like this is not like
Star Trek I've seen before and part of
me says that's refreshing
the other part longs for the simple one
and done episodes
and I think I think fans are upset
because you've dismantled the legacy I
think that they would be happy going in
a new direction and doing fresh stuff as
long as you retain that legacy I think
that's what I don't get hung up about
like your fan might complain about the
holographic communication and discovery
and I don't give a shit about that okay
I give a shit about the heart of the
idea it's the Star Trek's about
discovering things it's about exploring
the unknown it's about it's about your
imagination because you look up into
those stars and you do wonder what's out
there at least I do I'm not getting that
from discovery I'm getting a dour war
drama and I'm getting broken people who
are wallowing in the fact that they're
broken but if I could make a
counterpoint we did discover what's out
there
what's way out there in Star Trek
Voyager there's a lot of people with
with a couple of bumps on their face
it's a it's a lot of rehash and it's a
lot of things getting stale there there
are a lot of things in just in Voyager
that I like a lot of new ideas and let's
say that new ideas okay storylines and
that's my problem with the Orville
I love the Orville so much that I can't
watch it
the Orville it's not perfect it's not
perfect but it gives me the warm happy
feels if I find here's the major
difference between each show okay I
watched Star Trek discovery and I feel
worse I feel worse about myself I feel
worse about where I am and live I've
watched the Orville and it's like wow
that was fun it was it's kind of like
diet fun it's like the Orville way that
they they want desperately be Star Trek
but there's something missing one it
feels like Seth MacFarlane playing TNG
that's exactly what it is who doesn't
want to play TNG you're rich enough you
have enough influence you have the money
I want I'm Seth MacFarlane I've had
successful television shows I want to
play TNG but you're Seth MacFarlane you
got to have some dick jokes okay I'll
say a dick joke
I've watched five episodes of of the
Orville I can't watch anymore because I
watch it first of all my brain goes
haywire because because because right
and right in between these years is the
Star Trek encyclopedia hi and I'm going
and they lifted that from this they
lifted that from this they lifted that
from this and my brain starts like like
short-circuiting and smoke comes out of
my ears and then runs like wait stop
just enjoy the show and I was like okay
I'm enjoying the show these are all
recycled ideas that's fine and I have a
list of them the cage the cave wait no
it was it was a Star Trek the motion
picture when they go into the
shuttlecraft and they they tore the
Orville on the captain his first visit
to the ship that's Star Trek the motion
picture yes yes Oh a space rate that
speeds up time and and and and the
episode when Star Trek The Next
Generation characters get on board a
runabout for the one and only time and
and they encounter pockets of space that
time accelerates or slows down when
Deanna Troi freezes and then Captain
Picard goes to grab all the rotten fruit
and his fingernails grow real long yeah
and then like okay recycle ideas but
then I mean that one's fine
and then we have the space zoo when a
commander Admiral captain ed Mercer and
his first operation they end up in the
spacesuit which is the cage the
menagerie also well the menagerie the
most toys you know like data and and
examples of different species and then I
think the biggest one the one that's
just like was the the big the big eco
ship right that is lifted directly from
the original series right directly the
episode is called for the world is
hollow and I have touched the sky where
there's an asteroid there's an ecosystem
inside the asteroid and nobody knows
they're not on a planet and they're
hurdling towards doom
I mean and then of course you and the
powers that be are trying to keep the
people from even realizing they're on a
ship
first guardian of the word of Doral he
makes all law you are living inside a
hollow ball your entire world is a
massive bio vessel adrift in space and
in less than six months it's gonna be
sucked into the gravity well of a star
because a flaw developed in the controls
and unless we correct it
yo nada we'll kill millions of people
and destroy a world it doesn't even
matter this is what we wanted you to see
damaged records indicate the engine
failure is quite rectifiable guidance
controls taking over I believe we can
allow the ship to go back to its
automatic control yes and then same with
the concept of a culture evolving from
some like bullshit like like the the
book about Chicago gangsters or or the
most fucked up tos episode ever when a
Starfleet Admiral is on a planet and he
thinks that the Nazis had a really good
efficient system you and I know that all
those episodes in the original series
exist is because they had costumes from
another show and since we had all these
props from The Untouchables let's have
an episode that takes place on a
gangster planted we got all these
leftover Nazi uniforms from that World
War two picture they're shooting down
unlock be this guy wants to have a Nazi
planet we got this haunted house set
let's make cat's paw
yeah you know yeah yeah you're like I'd
put potatoes all those episodes are
iconic and memorable did I talk about
the Dyson Sphere you did not talk about
the Dyson Sphere Dyson Sphere a giant
giant intergalactical spaceship I mean
has a Sun in the center so it's a little
bit echo system on the core there's um
there's like the the Star Trek Voyager
episode where the species 8472 are
living in that dome that represents
their they're basically training to
infiltrate Starfleet
I can't differentiate episodes on
discovery with with the exception of
maybe the the lifted also lifted
storyline of the ship blowing up over
and over again yeah with the twist very
much time and consequences are what was
I called the TNG energy it was called a
cause and effect cause in fact that was
it yeah
poor shutdown is unsuccessful
we're but that was a like a technical
glitch I know it was Kelsey Grammer
flying through it was flying through
some kind of time anomaly and whenever
they crashed time reset but that that
pops out is a standalone episode so does
sort of the one where CEREC is is he
gets attacked by the the Vulcan
terrorists Vulcan renegade and and he
has to use his mind to talk to Michael
Burnham and like come save me and all
that that felt a little bit like Trek
but then there's the the overreaching
overarching plot line of lorca bad
captain and the tardigrade the monster
space monster which was reminiscent of
voyagers Equinox parts one and two when
they take they take happy happy space
eels from another dimension and they
sucked the life force out of them to
make their ships go faster and then
captain Jane listen no no no no no
that's wrong you're bad that's wrong we
traveled over 10,000 light-years in less
than two weeks we'd found our salvation
how could we ignore it
I adhering to the oath you took a
Starfleet officers to seek out life not
destroy it um I think that I think I
want to say I think in dune there is a
floating monster that allows them to
instantly transport from one side of the
galaxy to another and do nothing in doom
doing is a nightmare
it's a nightmare of a film but I I think
that happened in it okay
soon they'll begin to fold space far off
in the control rooms of spice gas
traveling without moving
now I'm not I'm not suggesting that they
stole ideas I mean ideas come from other
ideas come now sure everything's
connected
especially with Star Trek there's such a
history of Star Trek there's so many so
many things happening fuckin 60 years
which is why when I watch the Orville
and I think one of the more recent
episodes I watched with the Orville it
starts off with their Android Isaac yeah
I assume is named after Isaac Asimov or
Newton
I thought Newton but I think this could
be it for me eyes probably has a mouth
throat I will see on science fiction
right right so what it doesn't matter
they're watching Seinfeld and then you
know there's the joke on Seinfeld about
them dropping a junior mint into the pit
person in the operating theatre yeah and
the robots like what is humor and then
humors funny it's funny I don't
understand the concept of human I'm like
I've seen all this shit before with data
I'm an Android well then have you seen
any good-looking computers lately that's
a joke it's funny oh of course it is guy
walks in that had not his office but
doctor tells him you need an operation
the guy says I want a second opinion
the doctor says okay you're oddly filled
but on boom people watching the Orval
are probably like hey this is this is
great television I'm like this is all
recycled ideas it's all recycled ideas
put in different forms yes so are we
supposed to care about about what
exactly
there was one joke that I laughed out
loud in right the one where Charlize
Theron guest stars as Vash the female
love interest of the captain who's
secretly up to no good
I've seen that before she's up to some
time-travel theft much like Max Headroom
in the next generation his episode yep
yep where I come from every historian
knows the bridge of old 1701 D he's
going he's from the past and he's going
to the next gen time to steal technology
I've stolen these objects
to put in a museum far too valuable for
that you see in the century I come from
they haven't even been invented yet she
was from the future still ancient
technology to sell in the future right
as relics yes
so yeah again my brain is smoking from
I've never seen you like this well it's
it's it's infuriating because I'm
watching it and even the boorda SEPA
sewed with like that was the first one
where they tried a next-gen one where
it's lately like just the jokes
disappeared that episode yeah yes yes
they didn't even try anymore boardís
and his male partner have a kid and it's
a girl and there's the moral dilemma
because their culture they sex change
girls are like one in a million and
they're born that can they're considered
like a freak yeah they change them
because they have an all-male society
and they lay eggs and so humans are of
course we're like you're gonna change
the sex of the baby without letting it
decide it's like the warf warf spinal
cord you know I want to die or a half
life where laksana Troy falls in love
with with the old man and he's gonna
turn 60 and and our culture is like you
got to kill yourself once you turn
sixties like I have so much scientific
work to finish but a person on this
benighted little planet reaches the age
of 60 which timid son is about to do
they're expected to simply kill
themselves did you know that Hey
just kill yourself and she's like why
does he have to kill him so I was
thinking I was thinking the Outkast
episode well they're true were we're uh
commander Riker fell in love with the
the gender control the person doorless
person who identified as being female
but the society was upset with that
because they weren't supposed to have
genders and so there was a trial where
they forced her to not be a female takes
hour and a quarter his treatment will
begin tomorrow don't do this Soren
it's that episode it's just that episode
and there's not a baby it's an adult
recycled ideas in all caps bold print
yeah underlined that's fine but then you
have like characters that are like like
Ed Mercer the captain and you're like
and and he's like I laughed at one point
like Star Trek can have humor right it
needs to be mostly serious with little
spikes of humor and when they were gonna
sneak into charlize theron room to snoop
around and then Kelly Grayson the first
officer she's like I'm a first officer
you know I I'm I do this by authority
and respect and I don't mess around hard
cut to her hidden the things
housekeeping thank you
yes cute yeah it's cute context but then
it's like it feels like it needs to say
they need to say well that that guy's a
dick like isn't it funny that there's
music like a lot of the humor in the
show it feels so consciously tacked on
because Seth MacFarlane this is a Star
Trek fanfic and they make an episode and
then it's I get a feeling it's like oh
shit that's right I sold this to Fox as
a comedy insert joke insert joke insert
joke because then none of that they all
feel out of place and tacked on and
that's why it's it does give you that
warm fuzzy feeling of a TNG episode you
know it's cuts to the opening the ships
flying by and then some inane thing
before the main plot happens and then
you know it is same exact structure as a
TNG episode one and done everyone's
everyone's back to where they started at
the beginning and you're watching it and
to me it's like it's when when I was
watching it I decided I made the
conscious decision I can't watch anymore
cuz it's like it's like looking at a
picture of your favorite meal
you know it's like oh yeah that's great
but I can only look at the picture of it
I can't taste it and I can't eat it
see I contrast that to Star Trek
discovery we're like I ordered chicken
parmesan and the waiter brings me a
Salsbury steak
discovery like like there have been
people that have said you're shitting on
the legacy of Star Trek right it doesn't
make any sense how did this take place
ten years before Kirk and Spock people
say that stuff I know they do and I know
you want just story and you want nice
episodes and all that but you're talking
50 60 years of Star Trek mm-hmm people
say how does this happened before Kirk
and Spock because they want to know that
all their characters and all their
storylines are okay that they're intact
somewhere out there is Picard drinking
drinking wine and the Chateau Picard in
retirement Rikers flying around with
Troy on on the USS Titan
data's data's and pieces floating in
space you know everyone's everyone and
all and all of their stories and
adventures happened even if even if it
doesn't matter and you could say well
they happen yeah they're all undone blue
rain you can go watch them go watch them
they're still there but we're doing this
thing now but but it's that mindset
where they say we want to know that they
happened and when discovery comes around
and says this is 10 years before Kirk
and Spock before like the terrible
buttons and knobs and and then and then
people are like no we just don't believe
that we just think you don't care it's
give them a little taste of what's
Discovery's capable of the ending of the
first half of season 1 was pretty
exciting to me I enjoyed it because it's
like they have this plan and they have
to do 127 jumps to do this thing and you
know it was exciting in a in a Star Wars
way yeah Star Trek discovery is more
Star Wars and Star Wars was it's a space
opera the flat-out the confrontation
between Michael Byrne with the sword
fight you have to Klingon Emperor yes
that's not that's just straight up space
opera Star Trek
discovery is now Star Wars and Star Trek
is the Orville it's Star Trek is the
Oracle so yeah so I'm enjoying discovery
in a way that I would enjoy Star Wars
mr. mr. Scott's is is in the glass
chamber and he's ah and the the
discoveries will and I was like you to
say yeah alright this takes place 10
years before here good spot and then and
then then they end up they end up in the
mirror
probably the mirror mirror universe and
then I'm like all mister saroo
what am I looking Captain Lorca he's a
secret asshole he's a secret mirror
mirror a bad guy captain this can't be
rushed
mr. Damon they need us now he tells a
story about how he took a life a
lifeboat and escaped the starship and
blew up his whole crew so they didn't
suffer the indignity of being captured
by the Klingons I mean what he's you're
saying he's a mirror universe double
agent I don't know they get into the
mirror universe in enterprise because
towards the end I think the last season
they have like a Constitution class ship
this is my ground and it's the ship that
in whatever it's called the Defiant from
the original series that vanishes yes
yes the Tholian Webb yepez ode I believe
went when the Defiant vanishes and that
Kirksville around the space in space and
then yeah so that ends up in the end of
enterprise and they're like we got this
badass spaceship
destroy them
so they deal with the mirror universe
there and then they deal with it in Deep
Space nine a little it's of course yeah
way in the future and it's more played
for yucks and comedy this is a nostalgia
trip it's okay you remember that mirror
universe isn't it funny how all of our
favorite characters are bad yeah it
takes a little like wink wink a little
lighter there we get our first gay kiss
actually in Star Trek
Oh discovery can't take credit for that
between evil Kira and and Dax and yeah
and she was like a like a sleazy sex sex
pervert and Worf was like a moron
who was in charge of everything I think
it was a heavily implied that chief
O'Brien and the doctor were gay lovers
because he kept calling them by like a
nickname like like like honey bear or
honey pie or in fact you might have us
insights right now we wouldn't even know
it I start getting paranoid smiley even
if the region has the cloaking device
chances are it isn't functional yeah I
hope you're right
you know Star Trek Star Trek for all of
its touting of progressivism and and all
that really wasn't that progressive it
took it took extreme baby steps but it
takes it took I give him credit for
taking the steps but yeah there women
were just second-class citizens in the
original series perhaps you can explain
to her any career she hopes for in
Starfleet requires discipline and
cooperation well I'm sure that's what
the lieutenant was she just didn't
understand did you know less I remember
I don't remember what episode it was but
but Kirk and bones were talking about
some female instantly yeah I shall be
gone when she finds a man yeah yeah I
always do well there was the the one I
want to say it was the lights of zatar
where there's there's like a female
officer and you think mr. Scott would go
for the brainy thing I don't think he's
even notice she hasn't braids they had
to put her in like the compression tank
to like get get the the badness out of
her and the whole episode that kept
caller calling her the girl like the the
the girl can't stand that pressure and
how about how about turn about intruder
home yeah possessed by a woman and
because Kirk's possessed by a woman she
can't handle the enterprise because you
know she's a girl
she's bitchy she's bitchy and and
erratic and emotional but even normal
Kirk who's in the woman's body is still
useless because he's in a woman's body
having any taint and womanless womanís
just makes you go horribly incompetent
yes
and they fully admit that women were not
allowed to be start Starfleet captain
I never stopped you from going on with
your space work your world of starship
captains doesn't get MIT women yeah yeah
ten years ago though we had 25 female
captain's apparently but yeah the the so
the first gay kiss was in Deep Space
nine technically the first interracial
kiss was in the original series yeah but
it was forced by an alien yeah so we
have we have a white guy captain okay
followed by white guy captain a white
guy first officer then we're like okay
enough with the white guy
we'll have a black guy in charge but it
can't be a captain he's gotta start off
as a commander and then the season 5
comes around for four or five okay could
be a captain but it just is a single
ship and then we got a lady but you
can't be a black lady or a Latina or a
Chinese lady it's gotta be a white lady
so it's like it's like they're hedging
their bets there like a little
half-measures are you lately and then
back to the white guy although they did
have they did have some some people of
color in in Star Trek for the voyage
home
they're like they're like black female
captain Indian man captain man through
some book but all their ships got power
powered down by the giant space sausage
they did they did say fuck for the first
time in Star Trek I believe that's edgy
that's pretty edgy one that understands
its role in this process and engages
willingly okay I think I'm all right I
wish that discovery and the Orval could
could combine their forces come together
to produce a show called Star Trek was
that funny no discovery is just it's
very serious very cinematic very dark I
can't tell if it's if it's under written
or over written because a lot of times
you're like okay that's all that
happened in this episode and then a lot
of times you're like what they did that
so and then and then you have the the
Orval which has the comfy warm feeling
of a Star Trek blanket but at the same
time I can't take the characters
seriously and it feels like rehashing of
ideas I think the orphans got some good
characters I mean they're okay they're
they're fine characters they just don't
fit it you know what it is it's it's
when I watch TNG a lot of times my brand
would long for like like the way that
that real people would kind of respond
to situations which is why I gravitated
towards characters like Berkeley or I
want to say the early on they tried out
a character around the time the Borg
showed up her name I have that in my
notes that ensign who spills the coffee
on the carts
oh no oh I'm sorry Oh captain oh and
since Sonia Gomez Gomez Sonia Goldman
yeah something like that yeah and she's
like I'm just so excited to be hearing
yes she spills coffee I'm Picard and and
so you and then you have crusher and and
Geordi and and a lot of them are just
boring so you're like why aren't some of
these Star Trek characters in like the
next gen and why don't they say like
these these funny lines here and there
like they do in the Orval like normal
people would rob by the situation like
oh Jesus Christ now now this is
happening but but they're all very
regimented and it's because Starfleet is
a military organization yeah by the book
by the numbers either very there they
adhere to rules
it's a pseudo military organization the
Orval feels like I like Star Trek and
wouldn't it be nice if me and my friends
were hanging out in Star Trek
yeah it's fanfiction essentially and
it's not fun watching someone else's
fanfiction I like when I like when TNG
characters get quippy you know the scene
when Guinan gives Worf prune juice you
know and what is this this is excellent
you see it's an earth drink prune juice
warriors drink you know and then we all
chuckle but then you move on from that
and you don't dwell on it no one goes
hey dickwad you know my balls itch yeah
like that kind of stuff doesn't doesn't
fit in there and so it's like it's like
oh it's frustrating on the opposite and
the how do you feel about the Star Trek
Discovery characters I get I get nothing
out of most of those characters Michael
Burnham's a Mobe captain he's kind of
interesting but he's also an asshole
lieutenant love-interest is just a
complete fucking waste of space - ash
Tyler - Tyler love interests who's going
to die before the series is over mark my
words because they've spent no time
actually developing an actual character
for him well see that's the thing though
it's like like long-form TV drama
there's a lot of things that you don't
know
here's quark
he's he's he's the witty bartender he's
a little shady but in the end he does
the right thing you know
here's odo he's he's an asshole you have
your characters and they're there
they're solid and they're setup
discovery a lot of them are are yet to
be determined or mysterious which can be
frustrating in the short term ash ash
Tyler mysteriously appeared on the
Klingon ship with with Lorca and Harry
Mudd and and then he has these weird
flashbacks about him possibly being
raped yeah by the female Klingon and
he's traumatized he has PTSD or whatever
it is is he a Klingon spy is he a secret
Klingon in disguise Manchurian Candidate
right so and then Lorca he's very very
belligerent and hostile and and warlike
which is odd yeah it goes against all of
the Starfleet training so that's why you
know it's like what is he a secret a
secret bad guy he is our captain a
secret bad guy we don't know all the
answers and I think I think I watched
the one-and-done Orville's and I'm like
that's cute but that reminds me of six
Star Trek episodes I've seen already and
I laugh a couple times a discovery is is
is violent and dark but it's something
that's new and I don't know where
they're going with it I'm very excited
to see what happens in the second half
of this season if they go to Mirror
Mirror Universe and are we gonna just
are they gonna fix everything is it
gonna be that they were already in the
mirror universe in the start of it and
then now they flipped to the positive
Federation side oh is your theory that
the universe we've been watching is the
mirror universe that would make total
sense then that is the only idea that
might salvage the discovery for me yeah
does that mean basically everyone's an
asshole and this is how like the the the
fascist regime gets started yeah yeah I
mean it's a possibility that's what I
mean it's like it's like a longer story
arc
Oh actually a good twist don't get too
excited they're not gonna do that I'm
just saying that would be a good twist
that would be you we start off in the
mirror universe we don't tell the fans
and the and half of them go this socks
everyone's so violent and the captain is
an asshole but then it's like they flip
over and then and then here comes a
Constitution class ship
this is Captain Christopher Pike of the
Starship Enterprise don't be insane what
basically what I'm saying is I'm okay
with being done with the one in done
plot lines and I'm okay with the
long-form storytelling because I've
enjoyed many TV shows over the past few
years that you cannot pluck an episode
out of the middle and just watch it you
know yeah I can list 25 shows and that's
the way TV is now and so I'm fine with
that style as long as it's well-written
and and good and exciting and so far it
is but yes they really have to hit at
home at the end of this season they've
got to hit a home run and they've got to
sell it to me a little more I'm gonna
tell you something I have already
canceled my CBS all access it wasn't I
wasn't interested enough at the halfway
point to keep it going even even
divorcing it from Star Trek currently
there's not enough for me to stick
around it's just a generic serialized
science-fiction Star Wars II show in
space I don't know I'm okay with the
characters so far i I want them to have
good conclusions good arcs and I want
them to I want to see them developed
more over time and that's the thing is
like what I said
here's quark he's our bartender he's
shady but he does the right thing we
know that right away not much room for
growth but when you have characters that
that that you're discovering no pun
intended over over a whole season and
plus I think that's all right and I
think it's different yeah so to me it's
like yeah Star Trek has forked in the
road and it's like and if I had to
choose a path I'd have to go discovery
just
because I prefer Star Trek to be taking
itself seriously than it then really bad
attempts at humor and recycling
plotlines because it just seems like it
seems like a shame it seems like a waste
and and interestingly enough like people
like Jonathan Frakes and others have
worked on both yeah shows and Jonathan
Frakes is like a discovery it's darker
it's it's more it's more like the abrams
movies and orvill it's it's kind of like
TNG but they say dick in it I guess he's
just like I'm the guy I'm a guy and
here's here's let's I mean highly that's
a somewhat highly accurate statement
that could have been this whole video
just us saying those that those two
sentences because that's what it is
but it's incredibly frustrating well you
you put your lot in if you had to choose
you'd go to scuffle II I would go with
the Oracle I to the next gen season one
and and that felt like there are some
episodes that that felt like the
original series reject it didn't fit and
and you know what they tinkered with it
in season two and they made it work I am
holding out hope that the Orval can do
some tinkering and season two will be an
improvement and I I didn't hate season
one I like some of the characters a lot
of recycled Star Trek elements I can
deal with it III think there's room to
work with these characters and do
something find their own voice there's
room to do that but the very the very
concept is flawed the foundation is is
unsound do you not I mean you would say
the same exact statement about discovery
that you just said is that it needs to
find its own voice and get into a groove
but when you have you cannot take a show
where season one where they make dick
and fart jokes and kind of turn it into
the next generation over a couple
seasons because you're always gonna go
back and have dick and fart jokes you
know what I mean and both shows are off
to season two both have been renewed
they find every new discovery mm-hmm if
I hear that something crazy and exciting
happen I'll renew that CBS all access
okay
no that the that's just thinking about
the discovery episode where you know
they have the plant planet mmm sentient
plant the planet that wants to create
harmony between the Klingons and the
Federation and so it it makes beacon to
bring Klingon ship is the plant planet
this benevolent wise plant planet wants
to make peace between the two worlds and
Star Trek discovery just just spit in
the face of just classic Star Trek
ideals because the Federation didn't
even consider it which is like the
Klingons are coming we have to blow them
up get two torpedoes ready the Klingons
are coming fire
it made me die a little bit inside
what doesn't these days I think that's
when I made the decision to cancel my
CBS all access subscription Michael
Burnham was having a sword fight and I'm
like oh my am I here
I'm sorry rich I'm sorry III a - and I'm
torn torn between two worlds I don't
know what to do I just don't know what
to do might will do what old men do
we'll just three watch our old stuff and
and complain about them kids send their
new thing and then just die and then
we'll just die that's right that's right
that's the plan line see you next time
