Jan 3, 2019
Short Treks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6d4iCa6h29c
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/1080833114560229376
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/10156126803612634
https://www.redlettermedia.com/review/short-treks-review

oh hi rich Evans hey what's up have you
heard from Ellen yet I thought she was
gonna invite you on her show by now so
that her audience could see what
happened to dick the birthday boy she
was but then she saw what I look like
now and didn't want to depress everybody
I I got to live long enough for Julia
Roberts to be horrified by me you know
this conversation is is much funner than
the conversation we're about to have but
we're here today to talk about Star Trek
discovery like what's what's what's all
the setup here this is different well
rich I'm glad you asked because for this
video and all of our future Star Trek
Discovery videos I invented the CBS all
access canceled Metron this device is
directly wired to your CBS all access
account and whenever you're ready to
cancel it all it works
so rich are you wait what I know I
invented this device but every time the
light goes off and on
does that Rhys absque Ribe you or yeah
okay okay if it goes off a tree
subscribes yes this is a bit because I
canceled my CBS all access the second I
finished watching season one that's not
a joke it was it was the first thing I
did when I didn't have to watch
discovery anymore shamefully I I just
forgot like all their their bean
counters hoped for and I just let it
lapse and didn't watch a single fucking thing on it for six months until the release of the Star Trek shorts called short treks
starting October 4 get ready for the
exclusive new stories short tracks
they're released three short tracks so
far there's gonna be a fourth one in
January of which I didn't even know
about I thought they were just doing
three yeah
or else I would have waited to make this
show but I think the fourth one's coming
out right before the premiere of season
two so whatever I don't even need to
watch the fourth one I don't care I
really don't care
I like Rainn Wilson but I really owe ya
his version of Harry Mudd that's right
it's a Harry Mudd one yeah short trucks
continues with the escape artist January
3rd on CBS all access so why do they
make short tracks to give to desperately
look for a reason to have people hold on
their CBS all access accounts if there's
something for you to watch you just
watch the trailer the full trailer for
season 2 just a minute ago
captain 10 century ships on an intercept
course
I risked everything to help you you
assume every burden is yours alone first
time watching it what were your initial
reactions I the same reaction I have
I've had to discovery before it's it's
Star Trek made by people who don't like
Star Trek and they're desperate to turn
Star Trek in do something that is not
yeah we don't like this optimistic
hopeful view of the future we want drama
action drama looming threats people who
are miserable and angry at each other
that's what Star Trek discovery is and
that's exactly what I don't watch Star
Trek for aren't you excited about the
Red Angel that made me sick these
signals typically followed the arrival
of a being we call the Red Angel to
syndrome
showed me an apocalyptic Asian someone
or something is going to end all
sentient life in a galaxy the Red Angel
made me sick I think I rolled my eyes I
did something what I was watching that
trailer when they brought up the red
Angel because it's such a such an awful
idea for a Star Trek show here's a super
villain for this season no it's just
like Thanos go explore that interesting world, you fucks
it's a giant fucking galaxy of discovery and opportunity
your show's called discovery stop blowing things up but the
red angel of doom is coming I don't care
it's just like Thanos someone or
something is going to end all sentient
life in the galaxy
you have Star Trek which is this this
niche franchise it's always had a fairly
small but loyal fan base and you're
making something for this niche fan base
that specifically does not appeal to
that niche fan base you want star wars
fans the brand name is important and
that's all that matters
unfortunately I think they miscalculated
because the brand it's not just the
brand a Star Wars fans are I think a
little more like if it's got that logo
on it it's got that logo on it you know
but Star Trek fans I think I'm not
saying one group is smarter than the
other they're saying they're a little
more on particular yeah about about the
product
um the Star Wars is is Walmar
Star Trek is like Neiman Marcus I think
they know what they had with the brand
name and they don't care about the small
niche market or audience you know and
they're trying to turn it into so they
tried to turn it into something bigger
that would appeal to Star Wars slash
Marvel fans we're on a collision course
with a pulsar literally thought we were
all gonna die
wherever our mission takes us
have a little fun along the way this new
trailer to me was very much like an
Avengers movie like yes it's coming like
like there is like four or five opening
lines that are like the the world is
changing basically those kind of lines
yeah there is a great responsibility at
hand this could be the defining moment
for multiple civilizations millions of
lives the future may be determined by
our actions I think it backfire though
it did not catch on with the wider fan
base I don't think I don't think
discovery is that popular with the
general populace and the niche fans are
just watching the Orval there Orville's
where I'm getting my Star Trek fixed now
yeah I don't know if you noticed this
but in the did you watch the first
trailer for Star Trek discovery season 2
that's right
yeah but I think I forgot about it there
is a shot at the end when there's like
five or six characters standing in the
turbolift it's like Michael Burnham and
somebody and somebody else that it looks
brighter it looks more vibrant the
colors of their uniforms and stuff yeah
and then there's like a goofy alien and
I want to say he burps or farts or
something and it's a flat comedy shot of
all these characters and an elevator
something funny happens I can't remember
but but it is it looks very or valium
which to me wreaked of desperation it's
like it's like all the people behind the
scenes like hi the word vote is doing
better and let's throw in this shot to
kind of make it look like this is them
it's just like a like a Frankenstein's
monster of like parts and things like
this red angel threat now it's just it's
very marvelous yike and now it's like oh
that was, all that shit's successful
and put that in there
and like nobody knows what they're doing
Marie has rightly absolutely do first
they got rid of Brian fuller and then
now the the previous two show runners
that were doing discovery got fired and
then now alex kurtzman fully in charge
because you know he did very well with
this the amazing spider-man Cinematic
Universe as well as launching the dark
universe Cinematic Universe with with a
with the successful Mummy film
that ultimately wasn't a success though
all these things rich they're like
they're like Chinese Rockets start off
and then eventually they just blow up
and fall back to earth you know what I
mean but I would have figured that bad
robot was past the it exploded the stage
and that luster was now gone and I would
not ask Alex Kurtzman to head my Star
Trek series if you have a big success in
Hollywood you can ride that your entire
career and have numerous failures one
after the other and I was raised to
believe this service was my purpose yeah
I think also to like with the opener
they like blew half the budget for the
entire season on the first two episodes
and then they had to like scale it back
then they had stopped production and
then they fired everybody and then they
had to make short tracks because they
had to push the season to back nine
months you know it's all detailed in
other videos all over the internet and
and who knows what is completely true
and what is not sure tracks let's talk
about the short tracks all right short
tracks I don't know what order they came
out in but the first one i watch was
called Calypso okay sure Trax continues
with Calypso on November raid on CBS all
access that was an odd duck wasn't it
you you have the Star Trek you have this
short Trek short trucks and the the only
thing it has in common with the
Discovery Series is the the sets right
none of the the show's regular
characters are there in any way
whatsoever
and for some reason the ship is now
sentient and you know what it's probably
the single best piece of discovery media
I've watched it definitely was the best
of the short treks
it felt like
a sci-fi short that they had adapted to
fit into the discover universe man wakes
up or man is is an escape pod yeah comes
to a ship that's abandoned for a
thousand years and essentially falls in
love with the AI more or less and then
leaves because he's gotta go find his
real family it's a little little teeny
tiny character study of this one man and
I don't know if he's supposed to be a
human or an alien I think he's supposed
to be a human but it's just so far in
the fuse so far in the future thousand
years in the future I guess the
Federation's dead I don't I don't know
knows yeah it doesn't it doesn't really
matter and at some point you know they
installed an an AI on the ship if if the
ship weren't the discovery III would
describe it as like a a pretty good
episode of the Outer Limits except for
the part when he looks out into space
and sees a shooting star oh that doesn't
work that way a way we're talking about
Star Trek discovery there's a magical
moment though it was just like a Walt
Disney film yeah for the 1% of you out
there who don't know what we're laughing
at or shooting stars basically like a
meteorite burning up in the atmosphere
and you wouldn't see that in deep space
but if you don't know that you're
exactly the audience they're aiming for
what Star Trek discovery wait wait rich
what did I misspeak
a meteor is as it's falling a meteorite
is when it's on the ground and found
meteoroid I believe is out in space in
the atmosphere yes a meteor is when it's
falling because the word meteorology or
meteorologists means things falling from
the sky so when you say I'm a
meteorologist like I'm a weatherman that
just means I catalogue things falling
from the sky meteoroid floating in space
meteor falling meteor right on the
ground
I found a meteor right in the desert I
think you're right okay but you should
probably say it the other way too just
case you're wrong you know what I'm
gonna roll the dice on this one Oh
Mike's taking a chance it's taking a
chance everybody cuz we're we're being
snobby and we're making fun of discovery
where present a shooting star in the
middle of outer space
I guess it could have been like like a
comet traveling at light speed no that's
not how comets work either or maybe it
was it was no you know what it was
stupid
that's my Dickie pentas that's that good
old dick the birthday boy honestly
that's a great idea yeah so the one the
one takeaway I have from the Calypso the
one blunt question I have now the
discovery has that that AI Zora do you
think that was just a throwaway because
we have no cast members to use and that
that AI is never going to come up ever
again or do you think this is going to
be something that happens in the second
season where they the ship develops an
AI and they have to abandon it for a
period in some kind of time travel
episode the former yeah you just didn't
have anybody and they just did it and
it's never going to come up again what a
waste
there's no value no long long lasting
value to that short at least we know now
that the discovery will never get blowed
up it's gonna be around for a thousand
years it's like that episode of the
young Indiana Jones chronicles when they
showed a 98 year old
Indiana Jones at a donut shop screaming
at a little kid you can't threaten to
kill off Indy because you can't George
Lucas won't let you cuz young Indiana
Jones chronicles his cannon so don't try
it that short Trek was one of the best
discovery episodes and it's just ripping
off Wally thousands of years in the
future this this machine that has been
left alone really loves this old musical
movie funny falls in love the fat blobs
are the people watching the show but yes
I did watch it and I have my ID I want
my floating chair with the view screen
in front of my face when do I get that
rich that rich Wally is your star
tracker that's like your uh that's my
utopian future
don't miss runaway premiering October
4th on CBS all access
okay so Tilly I don't know cuz I don't
know if we could show clips I'm assuming
that whoever if anyone figured out a way
to upload these to YouTube the CBS all
access police would shut it down yeah
because this is their bread and butter
yeah physically till he makes a friend
well it starts that's it that's all that
happens it's it's chilly the actress to
play still II and about five or six
extras and it starts off in the cargo
bay and there's there's crew members
walking around the cargo bay doing some
kind of Star Trek business and then
there's a line on the speaker that says
all crew members report to
decontamination because walking around
the cargo bay doing something they all
have to go and decontamination alone in
their crew quarters so that Chile could
be completely alone on the ship the
entirety of the crew went into
decontamination like they only had
access to the one character okay so they
add in a stupid premise how to Tilly
wakes up in in the future a thousand
years and oh wait we did that already
you could have had or have a dream or
something I don't know but anyways so
there there's a like a predator type
invisibility cloak on something that
crawls out of a cargo container a
stowaway essentially the stowaway
creature cuts its finger and instead of
bleeding bright fluorescent green blood
she bleeds bright fluorescent orange
blood that's fine however what's not
fine is Tilly is in in the mess hall and
even though she's a scientist and
there's a strange glowing substance on
the floor that could be radioactive or
dangerous she sticks her finger in it
she's in the command training program
she's prime command material yeah
she didn't taste it that would have been
nice cherry on top wouldn't she she
should have tasted it I mean she's in
the mess hall it could have been food
dripping from the ceiling I don't
Oh somebody dropped their pudding on the
floor yeah yeah yeah glowing substance
on a starship
don't put your finger in it all right so
the twist is that this invisible
predator animal monster there's an
intelligent super hyper intelligent
queen of the planet
why does she tear up the mess hall like
an animal huh
but about the yeah well cuz you're
supposed to think she's a dangerous
animal until you discover she's
intelligent so that's that's that's
writing 101 right right in sequential
order from left to right because your
audience won't remember what happened a
minute ago okay
they don't think back and go wait a
minute why did she tear up the mess hall
like an animal she's she's apparently
like seeking an asylum of sorts on a
spaceship or escaping her planet so
really she should just be like hi I'm
so-and-so I'm from this planet I'm here
I'm an extremely smart scientist and I'm
also their queen
I seek asylum aboard your Federation
start except she's pooping on the floor
and hiding in a cargo container
women can be royalty and smart and
invent science the messages is that
apparently this this creature came from
a patriarchal society run by evil
business people that don't want her to
share the the secret of recrystallizing
dilithium because it's their booming
business essentially the big a metaphor
for the big oil companies and you
discover a way to power your automobile
with water the big oil companies would
probably try to murder you well that's
the old urban legend we could construct
the device to collect their high-energy
photons safely these photons could then
be injected into the dilithium chamber
causing crystalline restructure
theoretically no they recrystallized the
dilithium in Star Trek for so barely
it's pretty easy I guess they just
forgot about that someone didn't want
their Star Trek who's writing
start track that takes place like 25
years later but they use technology they
use technology from the 20th century to
recrystallize dilithium because all of a
sudden she's like it's time to go back
to your home planet and do something and
then she left right yeah why did she go
back if she was running away I don't
really remember I don't think that was
ever especially clear I think I fell
asleep during the end I think Mike we
just need 15 minutes to keep people
paying for CBS all access I don't I
don't know there is an especially strong
storyline in the tilly episode there's
not a real powerful character arc all
around like what's Tilly's thing well I
think I think it was it was her mother's
her mother's down on her but I guess
that's alright I don't care I guess I
don't know it's not clear it feels like
a like they had a like a like a high
school right of sci-fi short competition
I think Alex Kurtzman wrote it which is
why it's confusing and muddled and
I was raised to believe that service was
my purpose
I see him outside her the child molded
by wisdom human compassion
we speak about the objective hardness
the Vulcan Hart I think Alex Pearson did
write this yeah oh my god okay so so
Tilly Chili's a possible love possible
inspirational possible girl power
I guess they had alien girl power
episode I don't know what a we have a
moment and that's a make sure them all
that happens she beams are into space no
I don't think Howard Kurtzman cares
about the science of Star Trek I think
she beamed her all the way to her home
planet yeah at least they bothered to
try to explain that and Star Trek oh
nine when Scotty went on this like rant
about like you know interplanetary
beaming but how dangerous and crazy it
was I told him that I could not only be
Magritte fruit from one planet to the
adjacent planet in the same system which
is easy by the way I could do it with a
life-form which I didn't notice until
recently they made a little dig at Star
Trek Enterprise
yeah what do they do well he's like he's
like I tested it on Admiral archers
prize beagle and then how did it work I
don't know I never found the Beagle so I
tested it on AB milochka sprays beagle
I'll tell you what it reappears I don't
know I do feel guilty about all he said
Archer yeah I know I missed it too
I mean I didn't watch that movie like a
hundred times I watch it a couple times
what an arc should be like yeah exact
120 years old and it unless it's his
50th beagle you know but it's not the
same gee gopher obviously it's it's
hundreds of years a hundred years before
but I think it was just a little you
know wing yeah
Trax continues with the brightest star
on December 6th on CBS all access let's
talk about our last short Trek sorrow
species is pathetic that's the name I
think it was called the brightest star
but species is pathetic
it's a better name yeah I think I think
I like that shirt better than you did
because sorrow is just a likeable
character you know what I like I like I
like the makeup and and the look like
when they're in the water like
collecting like seaweed or something
yeah
kelp sir kelp Ian's yeah and he's
collecting sea weight in and there's
like you know there's weird colors and
they got these these crazy faces and I
was like this could just kind of feel
like real aliens you know Star Trek
always has like there's gonna be a
little appliance on your nose or your
ear that's because it's lazy you know
what they could do easily that's what
they could do easily inaccuracy yes the
the the kelp Ian's look like what real
aliens might look like I'm happy with
that
but sorry it's an asaru origin short
there's a there's a weird like obelisk
alien upside down obelisks that either
vaporizes well it it looks like there's
an other race that is in contact with
the kelp Ian's and just vaporizes random
kelp Ian's every now and then for some
reason that is never explained I'm gonna
imagine it's not vaporizing its
transporting them and they're like using
them it's like slave labor on something
like asteroid mining colony or something
it'll that's the thing that might come
up sometime later in Star Trek and Sarah
wants to question this as a kin to
questioning religious dogma he's like
he's Copernicus
the Sun does not revolve around the
earth
I think the Earth revolves around the
Sun that's blasphemy Saru what's out in
space maybe don't question the what's
the old man his dad was like yeah keep
the balance and like his easy old-timer
you know but Saru and then and then and
then the stupidest thing happens the the
the the advanced alien obelisk sucked up
10 Cal pians but and then he's like what
a piece of it fell off he goes to put a
piece of it fell off as it sometimes
does because they needed the Saru to
play around with equipment that can
contact Starfleet and so they did that
in the laziest way about every every
every moon cycle the the the obelisk
powers down and then at night it all the
lights go off in the obelisk and it
floats and it goes to sleep then sorrow
sneaks out of his house and goes and
pokes around at it you know how about
something like that that would have made
for a far better story if seen like yeah
and you know you have like research
powering back up and sorrow like you
know like removes a piece or like learn
something about it runs back to his Hut
and does it again the next night
whatever but a piece of it falls off
does it sometimes does how technically
advanced are these aliens like I laugh
out loud and he's like he's like here
Saru go bury it in the desert or
something and then sorrow just wraps it
up in a burlap sack it keeps it this
house and then that presses the buttons
and even though sorrows like the limit
of his skill set is collecting seaweed
in the water he he somehow knows how to
he's Mike he's naturally very
intelligent and he played around with
this thing and he just he just figured
out how it worked my good so so sorrow
is like God Leonardo da Vinci of his
time yes he's just he's just that good
and then he sends a little sick
and then captain Georgia comes down to
get him you never reminded me I remember
remember it - you would like to speak
and smell yeah yeah yeah hello let's go
like it could display like five letters
that's all we can do and then he goes to
meet the little uh Starfleet craft that
lands and I was like oh that's not a
starship a Starfleet ship what and then
captain Giorgio's gets out and I'm like
wait a minute this is violating the
prime directive and I 150 different ways
and then she's like well yeah we have a
lot of rules like the prime directive
and stuff but you cost a lot of like
debate or whatever just get in I guess
I'm just gonna take you because you
figured out how to contact us it's just
like that episode penpals
I know it's just as intelligently
written as as the penpals episode I like
Saru
I like sorrow - now that I know his
origins
I don't like sorrow Starfleet violated
the prime directive just so they could
recruit him because he figured out how
to use this weekend spell yeah what if
one that got him he was just like really
dumb and he just couldn't grasp anything
would Giorgio's like then like make him
like like a like a waiter she'd be very
embarrassed she'd be out she just like
drop him off at his home planet name it
all the night they'd beam him back so he
could be vaporized with the next group I
thought he was going to be genius
because he turns I was just an accident
I can't figure out how to work the
turbolift even you just say what floor
you want to go to and then he lays down
on the floor no no no no no there are
decks on the ship decks
oh fuck
oh fuck
go help in the kitchen kitchen
and she just beams I'm in space you cook
food alright why why are we doing what
is this our fourth Star Trek discovery
episode
possibly our last why you know why rich
why because as a profession you and I
make Internet videos and it's people we
love Star Trek and I thought hey the
whole world out there knows I love
talking about Star Trek so when they
said there's a new Star Trek series
coming out I thought oh boy
I'm gonna make a video for every episode
and I'm gonna talk about it but now I
just want to die quite the welcome we
have to in Georgia we joined section 31
fancy covert ops threat-assessment
sometimes if the future of Star Trek is
the trailer for discovery Season 2
action drama explosions
I don't know that I like Star Trek
anymore oh yeah I think I think I have
to divorce myself from the brand I think
I think the brand and I have gone in our
own separate directions the trailer
doesn't it the trailer makes it look
like they're doubling down on stupid
captain we are riding into danger is
that a smile I see on your face
yes welcome to Discovery I was willing
to accept discovery up until a certain
point I was okay with turning a blind
eye to certain stupid things that
happened in it and then kind of keep the
good and then hope for a season two that
maybe got a little smarter smoothed out
some of the rough edges bulked up some
of the cool characters but then they
immediately jumped the shark like we
joked you got that card in your back
pocket that ace up your sleeve which is
mr. Spock yeah and things we know it's
the USS Enterprise
here's our third incarnation of Spock
and he looks like fucking let it be Paul McCartney
these characters you know a Spock and
pike and then and the enterprise that's
all window dressing we've we've talked
about like you know the rough season
ones of generate you know of TNG and
Deep Space nine the thing is those two
shows like their season soon they just
needed to iron things out they needed to
find their footing season two of
discovery it needs to change what
discovery is it's it's more the problem
with discovery is more than finding
their footing season two of discovery
needed to be a different show and it
looks like they're doubling down on
everything that was wrong looks like
from the trailers because their logic is
that everything that is wrong to us is
what is popular in other things long
dramatic story arcs super villains
action you know again like I said it
looks like look I'm like the fan OHS
movie like a Marvel Avengers thing like
intergalactic space threat and running
around with like space suits on and
things blowing up and and yeah and that
that works and in certain context but
not as is there's no point to call it
Star Trek and it's lost its identity as
a brand there's only so many times we
can say I wish it was like Star Trek you
know you don't wanna sound like a broken
record and you don't want to seem like
the the bitter old man desperate for the
old times you know like this thing and
your Grandpa's Star Trek that sort of
thing like I am I'm fully prepared and I
am okay with just turning my back on
discovery walking my other way and just
saying you know what it's not for me
maybe I won't watch it yeah you do that
Mike I'm fine with that I'm trying to
think like that that trailer gives me no
hope I don't even you know what didn't
bother me there bring it Spock back as
long as they wrote like Star Trek
episodes yeah i Brinks Brock back it's
pandering but no the Red Angel
you you packaged the show around all
these like different diverse characters
and now you're bringing in old
characters that out of desperation you
know it's and it's like that's not the
problem the problem is isn't the fact
that Spock's not on the show you know
what I mean yeah it's that's not the
problem so I don't know and I understand
the times are a-changing you know yeah
and I think that's why we have to to
cancel CBS all access but also cancel
our Star Trek discovery discussions
because I just can't do it anymore I'm
only here because you forced me to be
unknown
I know blackmail this better yeah
you threatened to release the show bus
beats a bear picture onto Ellen yeah I
just did it anyways yeah even though you
agreed to come on the show is that you I
already signed the contract I know I
just I'm pretty I'm a I'm a super
villain like like the the Red Angel well
rich January something the premiere of
Star Trek Discovery season 2 I know you
have it written down on your calendar
actually don't you and I will watch it
together oh okay we'll get some popcorn
open a bottle of wine hold hands like we
do and watch the season premiere of Star
Trek discovery and we may or may not be
back to discuss it on our our Star Trek
discovery discussion set can somebody
help me
