Jan 26, 2020
Star Trek: Picard - re:View
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hfQdf93e63I
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/1221598758615560193
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/10157430247667634
https://www.redlettermedia.com/review/star-trek-picard-review
https://www.reddit.com/r/RedLetterMedia/comments/eug96v/star_trek_picard_review/

what an uninspired title Star Trek
Picard here we are it's the biannual
Star Trek funeral that we always have
that's why I'm wearing black
I should have worn black I can't even
say it was that bad but some people were
a full Jean outfit to funerals
some people truckers truckers my old
fashioned trucker funeral old fashioned
trucker few I haven't put on your best
denim head-to-toe denim for the funeral
of Bubba Jo this truck blew off the
highway they placed the the trucker in
the semi oh yeah that's a hearse like a
yes I'm a painted black well my they'd
the parking on the highway and then
they'd they douse it with like like
booze set it on fire oh okay trucker
funeral do they throw like porn and then
stop yeah porno DVDs a lot lizards come
by to pay their respect it's very moving
this is weird because it's just one
episode and it's not like it's not like
it used to be in the old days Mike but
an episode was a self-contained thing we
essentially watched the first 10 minutes
of a feature-length movie I'm being
awfully fucking negative
I shouldn't be because I didn't hate this
like I absolutely despised the second season of Discovery
kind of like an AI sausage ooh right it
was off to a pretty simple start yeah
it's the Star Trek Picard you got you
got the little the dream sequence with
data as you predicted of course several
everything you predicted was correct as
you said that the girl would be data's
daughter
it might not be in the long run I had a
thought because it's kind of it's kind
of a dumb idea what she's data's
daughter
you said some other things that that
were true I think did you say the dog
would be called number one I don't
remember don't think is so obvious that
of course they did that it's cute tell
me tell me something watching this
because Captain Picard Ennis seems to
just worship a commander data are they
writing this like like in all
seriousness are they writing this as if
Picard had romantic feelings for data
I'm not kidding because this man goes
tonight he goes to bed every night and
dreams of data and he doesn't want the
dreams of data to end and now and now we
have data's daughter right but we also
have like a big Borg ship that shows up
at the end we'll get there I I think
this is gonna work out so that she's not
only data's daughter but she's also got
some Picard's DNA from the Borg Queen
and Picard
thus kind of making her data and
Picard's daughter yeah oh yeah you're
probably right this whatever stupid
thing you could think of
Picard liked data he tolerated him he
respected him he wasn't his friend he
kept those emotions close to the vest
but really deep down Mike he was in love
he dreams of data every night
gravitational fluctuations within
acceptable parameters flight pattern
I'm sure you have done a complete
investigation and if you wish to
continue it of course you have my full
support the we shall be reaching the
beta Agni system shortly and I expect
you to be rested the writers know as
much about Star Trek as Jay does but Jay
knows that data was on Star Trek so Jay
thinks that data and Picard were best
friends right true Geordi and data were
best friends right data spent his free
time with everyone on the ship
except for Picard if if you watched the
show the closest relationship that data
had was in fact Geordi yes I consider
Geordi to be my best friend but you're
not just another electronic system
Thank You Geordie nor are you just
another biological organism he had a
special bond with everyone but Captain
Picard Pat Captain Picard was there to
do his job my my
Captain Picard is the guy that does this
oh yeah everything else you could just
make up because it's you know that's
never been written before it's it's a
blank slate Lieutenant Commander data
operations officer on the enterprise was
synthetic did you ever lose faith in Him
never data you were the key to this
entire mystery and you have done nothing
but block my every attempt to solve it
why you fighting me computer recognized
Picard jean-luc alpha to clearance
priority clearance recognition alpha two
orders regarding command functions are
no longer accepted from your present
location the data I know would never
have agreed to be a willing party to
laws plan I now realized that my life
aboard the enterprise was a waste I wish
I had better news commander data
attacked us in the mission Scout ship
yesterday
Rauf oh and I have decided to send in an
assault team you know we don't have time
for this can I help myself
Radim hold very still counselor
emergency closed now show me your
warrior fierceness
what else so the writers know let's
let's go on this theory writers know as
much as J does okay J what else do you
know about Star Trek The Next Generation
okay well that is we'll get there it'll
be he'll say that look for old times if
they engage what else do you know J what
kind of tea yes yes the Borg
correct correct
you know data did though Picard may have
had sex with the Borg Queen off-camera
before that during the TV series yes
it's implied that she was around when he
was the cutest and in secret but data
had sexual intercourse with the Borg
soon remember she said was a good for
you yes is that good for you and then
the audience left the the things that
most people know about Star Trek like
data the Borg are all being kind of
shoehorned in here and woven into the
story in a ham-fisted terrible kind of
way which it will develop over ten
twelve episodes Picard is retired to his
vineyard as expected he's got some like
Romulan and helpers and I like that
that's a nice nod to the the Romulus
blowing up in 2009 start directly yeah
no home now and now you have Romulans
out about in the rest of the galaxy you
away from Romulus right and and they
they are servants to Picard because they
appreciated what he did and this is the
primary backstory to the series or this
particular opening episode was that when
Romulus his son was about to go Nova
from what I recall
Sybok Eric Bana was his name Sybok he
shot red goo that was just Spock Mike no
no Eric banners character
the bad Romulan from Star Trek I said
the red matter I don't know Spock had
the red matter that he's shot at the
supernova Oh was the supernova a
naturally occurring event yes it was a
naturally occurring supernova that made
no sense Spock was flying around trying
to stop it yes single-handedly with his
red matter okay nobody was hoping Spock
no other scientists not the Federation
No
well I think the only ship fast enough
was the one man ship that had the red
matter I I think okay well that sounds
like it's a smudgy disgusting
fingerprints of JJ Abrams and Alex
Kurtzman Thanks so they knew the Sun was
gonna go supernova right and Romulus is
so the Sun somewhere else had gone
supernova there wasn't there it was the
Romulans son oh they say it in Captain
Picard's TV show oh yes watched when you
first learned that the Romulan Sun was
going to explode and the terrible
consequences that would bring 129 years
from now a star will explode and Fricke
to destroy the galaxy
never mind that it's not it's not a
random son like hundreds of light-years
away it's the Romulan Sun at the centre
of their solar system yeah so there's
Romulus and Remus and all the different
planets of the Romulan star system and
that Sun was about to go Nova which I
assume Romulans are pretty advanced in
their technology mm-hmm if so not more
so advanced than the Federation I am
willing to assume they have the
technology to be able to detect it
before it happens
the star went Nova all life in this
system was destroyed approximately one
your observations your findings now
scientists reach those same conclusions
two years ago perhaps perhaps some
people could be evacuated evacuated
where our technology is limited we're
just beginning to launch small missiles
so that's why I always thought it was an
intentional event most stars have the
phases you know where they become a red
giant and then they Nova and then
they're like a was a white dwarf yeah
what's left over and that which
eventually dies every black hole
have we seen mama was the Sun is it a
red giant no there was a yellow star
okay and it would have been a red giant
for ten million years before it going
supernova JJ Abrams does not care about
space it's not that he doesn't
understand it he doesn't care to even
try to understand it the star went Nova
okay okay thank you yeah my brain is
just having too much trouble
comprehending basic science that stars
well then then you should watch Star
Trek yeah in the new Star Trek yes Suns
just don't go Nova like oh right
it's a process our orders are to proceed
to this star beta Strom green scientists
have discovered it is in the final
stages of an alternating cycle of
expansion and collapse and will soon
result in a supernova it does actually
it's instantaneous when it happens but
there are telltale signs that it's going
to happen and those signs last hundreds
of millions of years right yes
so in this JJ Abrams spin-off universe
which is the Captain Picard TV show the
Romulan Sun just went supernova yes and
we're gonna assume that it happened
instantaneously or else ROM Romulus
probably could have done their own
evacuation now scientists reach those
same conclusions two years ago they have
giant fucking Romulan warbirds and and
tons of ships they could have done it
themselves they didn't need Captain
Picard and his Dunkirk Brigade to come
and save an entire populace of a planet
that is fully capable of doing it
themselves right
the Romulan Star Empire is huge I am
going to give them the benefit of the
doubt and say that the the logistics of
evacuating let's let's let's be
conservative and say four billion people
though Romulus probably had more than
that 10,000 warp-capable ferries a
mission to relocate 900 million Romulan
citizens probably more than even the
Romulans with their existing giant space
fleet could handle especially
considering that that space fleet is
probably spread out throughout the
entirety of the Romulan Star Empire I
think the big question is how much time
did they have do they have an hour or
did they have 10 years we don't know we
don't know so Picard without the help of
the Federation because in the JJ Abrams
universe the Federation are xenophobic
racists yes who refused the help of an
enemy but the Federation understood that
with millions of lives at stake Romulan
lives
I believed we had a profound obligation
to give it many felt there were better
uses for our resources than aiding the
Federation's oldest enemy well
fortunately the Federation chose to
support the rescue effort yes initially
it makes you sick doesn't it it does
because when a planet says our Sun is
gonna go Nova can you help us escape and
they go no the decision to call off the
rescue and to abandon those people we
had sworn to save was up just
dishonorable it was downright criminal
the United Federation of Planets is not
just earth it's about a hundred planets
yes other alien races that are all it's
like the United Nations yeah Earth runs
it is this the head of it that's where
the that's where the capital is that's
where the capital is I don't know that
I'd necessarily say earth runs well the
president of the Federation is often an
alien yes yeah in other you know it's
never that never but it's not always a
human being it can be an alien character
yeah
so it's it's it's based on earth but
it's a collaborative of many other
planets and cultures and races and they
join the Federation that was one of the
many different episodes of Star Star
Trek is can this planet become a
Federation member and so when Romulus
comes asking for help
instead of just turning their backs on
them they would have helped and they
probably would have also said squeezed
in some diplomatic connections there
some diplomacy said hey you know you
will help you escape you guys turnt tone
down your belligerents a little let's
sign some treaties they're always
signing treaties but in this universe
they just said no I'll even give the
show the benefit of the doubt that maybe
Starfleet was putting as much effort as
they could
but you still need a lot of civilian
ships just to evacuate that many people
I'll give them that
I'll give them that might the the thing
that infuriates me is that apparently
during this evacuation of synthetics
which really at the time of the next
generation there were only like three of
them data lore and before the suing
androids
so the soon and there are only the soon
androids apparently don't forget about
data's fake mother don't forget about it
his fake mother who's also a very
convincing Android and hairy muds
army of sex slave ladies there were
androids all over the fucking place an
old Star Trek bridge all right all right
okay I'll even give the show that then
but apparently during this Romulan
evacuation yes
androids blew up Mars androids attacked
the Utopia Planitia shipyards which is
where Starfleet which is different than
the Federation although the show
probably doesn't know that either
so the synthetic people attacked the
Utopia planning
shipyards where Starfleet builds its
starships and they attacked it so
violently that it ignited the atmosphere
of Mars which has explosive gas in it as
far as I know Mars doesn't have much of
an atmosphere I'll give the show the
benefit of the doubt and let's say that
given the benefit the dancing like 200
years of building ships on Mars has
released a lot of unhealthy gases into
Mars atmosphere
I'll give the benefit of the doubt again
Mike what what I won't fucking forgive
them for is that this incident has
turned the Federation into a bunch of fucking races xenophobes who don't like androids or Romulans
like we're gonna stop evacuating the Romulans because some androids who weren't related to the Romulans blew up Mars
I think Romulans are making androids and
then this Fox News reporter lady yes yes
that said that's the that's the
important scene in this is blaming
Picard for the rogue androids who blew
up Mars even though Picard had nothing
to do with the androids
I thought we were here to talk about the
supinator a group of rogue synthetics
dropped the planetary defense shields
and hacked Mars his own defense meant
yes wiping out the rescue Armada and
completely destroying the Utopia
Planitia PR and so yeah Picard like I
were to talk about what is a tenth
anniversary of a supernova and then
she's like she starts hitting him you
know and he crumbles under the pressure
of this news reporter who who hates
Romulans yeah and I get what they're
doing they're doing some modern-day
politics it also destroys Star Trek it
destroys that the core ideas of the
Federation and I think like Patrick's
tour was like using the Starfleet or the
Federation that that we see in Star Trek
Picard is very different from the one
from the next generation it's now evil
and okay you're talking about America
Star Trek has always done political
analogies let's talk about that but they
have done it in a way
they did it in a way where you still had
your optimistic future I always I always
loved that optimistic future about Star Trek
I always have
my favorite fucking moment in Star Trek
I don't
I've told
we've done like five of these Star Trek
reviews stop me if I've talked about
this before but this the Abraham Lincoln
space episode as corny as that is but
you have Abraham Lincoln other bridge
the enterprise and he uses an outdated
offensive term
"charming negros"
to Uhura
to her and and Lincoln even even
faked space Lincoln being a kind man
looks to her and apologizes Oh forgive
me my dear I know that in my time some
use that term as a description of
property and a hora is utterly confused
by this for a moment and then she
realizes what happened and she laughs
and it's a beautiful fucking moment
because starts the Federation humanity
is so good in the future racism is so
dead she doesn't even know to be
offended by that the foolishness of my
century had me apologizing where no
offense was given we've each learned to
be delighted with what we are and it's
it's such a thing of the past that it's
forgotten it's completely it's
completely forgotten about it's this
wonderful bright vision of a humanity
that that made it it's something we can
look forward to
it's fucking
it's
inspiring to me and now we're coming along and they're a bunch of fucking, fucking xenophobes and racists
fuck that
fuck that
stop shitting on Star Trek, man
this is how you tell good sci-fi, rich
you have a reflection of today's hostile divisive political environment that we're in
and then it's sci-fi writers that that
are a little too full of themselves and
sci-fi writers I put in quotation marks
Gene Roddenberry he was a visionary he
had this idea like you've just described
very eloquently yeah and and that is no
more that died after he died it started
to crumble slowly
I don't know did it start with Deep
Space nine being a little too gritty
yeah there's the thing Deep Space nine
was a good show but I I never wanted
Deep Space nine to become the new normal
you know like okay they did they're
cynical dark show that was good now
let's get back to it and know it just
devolved into action schlock well I mean
Voyager maintained the spirit for the
most for the most part but yeah the next
gen movies going on during that but next
gen movies were very much in the the
dumb we only care about actions yeah
yeah
then I wish I never made the next gen
yeah I wish I'd just ended there
so what happens next where did we leave
off uh while we were trying to talking
about the back story about how Picard
took a convoy of Romulans and everybody
and it was controversial that he decided
to help a population of a planet escape
a supernova
because Romulans have been the sworn
enemy they haven't been a sworn enemy of
the Federation and decades remember they
all teamed up at the end of Star Trek
nemesis they never had open war either
as far as I know right I think there was
a earth Romulan warlike years before
Kirk was that before the Federation
though was that like very early
generation and I was like like a hundred
years you know ago yeah and in this
timeline so yeah because then they went
and disappeared for a very long time and
then they came back it was a big deal
when they appeared in Kirk's time too
right there they're really famously
famously elusive and reclusive yeah and
and then yeah they were always kind of
sketchy villainous characters throughout
the next gen but then after that the
demand there were always my favorite
villains because the Romulans always had
fun clever plots where they would try
and trick people and they banned like
schemes yeah well they were scheming
we're gonna we're gonna try and trick
the enterprise across the neutral zone
so we can claim politically they're
violating our space which will allow us
to move into this territory I always
have some kind of clever plot like in
Star Trek Picard where they're building
a giant Borg super weapon yeah what was
happening there don't think some kind of
giant Borg cube the Romulans my brain
shut off at that point there we don't
know exactly what it is the girl
okay our girl character's name - not
Vash oh gosh - gosh
see that's the thing I couldn't
understand what anyone was saying well I
watched the show are you becoming
elderly I think I am because she's like
my name is Lodge
- gosh my what and then and then four
cards talking to the hologram like
library assistant and and he's like what
is the title of this painting choosing
this painting is called daughter child
or Jewish I'm like did you I thought you
said daughter and then I thought she
said daughter
they said daughter the painting his
daughter Dodger that's what I thought
she said then I said dog daughter dodged
what is the character's name - da j da
SH - shortly
I think gosh I think they were trying to
make I'm not entirely sure but I think
they're trying to make you think that
she might have been Picard's daughter
with vash his love interest on G&G for
one Episode no wouldn't see these
writers don't remember that J do you
remember vash okay say the writers don't
remember that they don't know what that
is rich they know Borg cube de dah
set phasers to stun an Earl Grey tea tea
oh great never fails
okay and Romulans they're there they're
there they're gonna shift away from
Klingons to Romulans and Picard at least
for the first season everyone knows
Klingons but they did that in Discovery
yeah
jános Klingons and Romulans I'm pretty
sure and Vulcans - right you've heard of
these names yes Klingons and Romulans
and Vulcans that's it do you know
Cardassians
No so girl wash the job - Dijon - dodge
Dodge is living in Boston with her
boyfriend and they're drinking wine and
she just found out she got accepted to
the daystrom Institute because she is
she's Android and very smart then what
we find out later or romulans and biker
costumes beam into her apartment and
kill her boyfriend with a knife and then
try to knock her out by hitting her in
the head it's not entirely clear what
they were trying dad were probably
trying to knock her out but they are
also like hacking into her brain or
something they were very inefficient for
having a complete and total surprise
advantage right they could have set
their phasers to stun beamed in and shot
him both in less than a second but
instead they go through this whole
rigmarole of throwing knives are on the
room and trying to put a bag over her head
in the fucking 24th century
why use gun why use stun settings when
you can just violently stamp them so
like it's far more exciting when you
violently stabbed people and then they
they put a bag over her head I guess to
suffocate her
maybe the bag has late for people to see
what they were doing
it has ether in it or Clarke or they're
gone
are they are they are they like hipster
assassins that use like two to three
hundred year old methods of backing
people out even though they can beam
into the room instantly and stun someone
so they put a bag over her head but she
activates and then we have a fight scene
that we watch for ten minutes that's
ultimately pointless she then has a
dream or she sees Picard in her mind's
eye she has a vision of Picard yeah and
then that coincides with Picard being
interviewed by Fox News where they they
they do a gotcha interview and they
start asking him why he tried to rescue
people and then he has to explain to the
new
reporter that Romulans are people too
and they're not just mud creatures that
FoxNews despises so then she goes to
Picard for help and Picard then randomly
speculates that she could possibly be a
robot I think the attack or you might
have acted as some kind of wake-up call
that damn ringing answer it like
positronic alarm bell no do you think
I'm crazy
no do you believe me know what Picard
has sexual dreams about data and data
Spain ting and data is painting a lady
you know in a you know in a gown
standing on the rocks looking over the
ocean who doesn't have a face he knew
when he woke up okay yes and then he and
he has a painting by data there's two
copies and one that has the face of the
girl so the girl then goes to Picard and
tracks him with her brain
yeah because Picard says you can't track
me because you don't security clearance
I guess Picard probably has a microchip
in his head now by the way data knowing
what his daughter was going to look like
thirty years in the future that is one
of those things that's never going to be
explained because alex kurtzman
mm-hmm it's a mystery it's a mystery so
she goes to Picard and says help me
obi-wan Picard you're my only hope
I saw you in my dream I saw you on fox
news and you hold the keys and he goes
yo data's daughter
who I think you are you are dear to me
in ways that you can't understand
my very best lover I mean friend who I
constantly obsess about 30 years later
he didn't give a shit about for the
seven years I've served with them and
then he tells his girl he just met I'm
going to stay with you forever yes and
protect you always
yes because you're Dana's daughter and
you're very special
didn't he tell Dana to disassemble all I
have decided to allow my child to choose
its own sex and appearance commanded
data at your convenience I would like to
talk with you in my ready room
counsellor like he was he was pissed
when Dana made long I insist we do
whatever we can to discourage the
perception of this new Android as a
child it is not a child it's an
invention Dana made law in secret
remember
he just did it and then he's like
counselor troi come here look at this
and she's like oh my god the
ramifications of what you've done data
and then Picard's like pounding his
fists on the table like how dare you
then then the bad guys show up and kind
of said I'm pleasantly surprised that
they weren't section 31 because new Trek
has a fucking hard-on for section 31
because that's the fan base now the
violence violent hard-ons is the fan
base that's what they call themselves
now we've gone from Trekkies got long
gone are the simple days of Trekkie and
trekker that debate now they call
themselves fighting our Daleks
yeah you were violent hard-on
yeah, I am
did you watch fucking picard last night
yeah come on over bro it's so shameful
anyway okay back to start subscribe
the Romulans show up to do something
with dodge by the way those could be
section 31 Romulans don't discount that
least knowledgeable about Star Trek
thing to do ever yes definitely gonna
happen there now section 30 let them in
there defectors Romulus the Romulans
have no home right so start
we recruited a hundred Romulans that was
like really good super secret agents
right because that's what Romulans do
that's gonna be the reveal their former
Romulan secret agents but since Romulus
blew up I may as well join our secret
agency that the the the Federation will
secretly have recruited Romulans into
section 13 oh yeah change some kind of
bidding yeah we can't get away from
section 31 not Alex Kurtzman
no don't and postera man the spin-off
show so don't just discount anything
that's too stupid so okay Romulans and
biker costumes attack Picard and the
little girl Picard and Dodge did the
most logical thing so they run up to the
top of building and Picard is trotting
up some stairs and we only see him from
behind which which makes me think they
used stunt-double to have Picard jog up
five stairs yeah we could probably find
this out by looking at IMDB credits but
I'm gonna guess you're right because and
that's not this isn't even an old man
yeah
and also you know he could trip running
up even three steps fall injured his
knee break his hip yeah and we're not
making old folks jokes but it's possible
it could happen and that you know that
would call it the production so very
likely algorithm seems where he's
standing and or sitting if he has to do
physicality they probably had a stunt
double what if he has to sit up like
there's like handlers that actually lift
him up but they they take them out
digitally let's talk about the scene
okay it's logically scene Picard and
Josh dive dive Picard and dodge I'll
never remember that name it's so
forgettable Picard and Dodge are sitting
outside of Starfleet archives it's a
museum the archive thing a wing of
Starfleet Academy oh can I can I say in
Picard little section of that archive
why would he keep that stupid fucking Captain Picard Day banner when he fucking hates children
the archivist kept it okay oh you mean
like I'm the ship card I've even kept
that long enough for it to end up in the
Picard archives here's an answer
uh-huh counselor Troi took it down after
picard stormed out of the little things
and folded it up rolled it up and put it
either in her quarters or in storage and
then I guess when the enterprise-d
crashed in flames the curling discs are
out to the side he made sure to say
thank him Picard day better
okay dodge and Picard are outside the
archives the Federation archives and
they're sitting very clear by doors
inside a building which probably has
many other people maybe security
officers there they're in San Francisco
in the heart of Starfleet's presumably
right next to a building that's full of
Starfleet personnel yes and and and she
says oh my god they're coming to get us
I can sense them with my Android brain
somehow and she says come on 79 year-old
man let's run up a flight of stairs to a
wide-open rooftop where we could be
visible from anywhere I'm gonna give
this show credit for addressing that
because Picard barely makes it up the
stairs and says it I give them credit
for not treating Picard like a young
action hero oh yeah yeah but the purpose
of going up the stairs to a rooftop not
did they have a spaceship there I didn't
see one it was Picard shuttle there that
he he came down to the Starfleet
headquarters I did not see one I
presumed he just beamed over there yeah
okay what was on the roof then nothing a
stairwell that they could kick someone
off that's the correct one so oh that so
then so then dodge turns into neo from
the matrix yes yes and starts flying in
the air
oh she runs up the stairs like she got
on no she doesn't run up the stairs she
jumps up the stairs like neo from the
matrix and then she kicks everyone's ass
in a scene that goes on way too long the
Romulan agents a Romulan guy and a biker
helmet is exposed because his glass
breaks on his yeah my biker helmet
that's the big Romulan reveal yes and he
spits bytes a cyanide capsule
essentially but it's acid that melts his
face and he spits it on her she starts
to melt and he also overloads his phaser
rifle which causes her to melt and start
on fire and explode yes anyway thank
vapor card goes to the daystrom
Institute yes in Japan where he meets
not Bruce Maddox from that old TNG
episode but his assistant yes they
referenced Bruce Maddox which was
interesting may I present commander
Bruce Maddox mana and this is where we
find out that she was cloned from one of
datas positrons the girl was yes well
it's it's speculated it's not confirmed
okay he a troll remember he he shows up
and the first thing he says to the lady
her name is what like Ellen or whatever
her name is he says I want to create an
Android that's all flesh and blood you
can tell me if it is possible to make a
sentient Android out of flesh and blood
that makes no sense and I'm like isn't
that a basically a person and then she
laughs and says no maybe a thousand
years from now Oh God then she
misunderstood he was just trying to get
her in bed
just for a nap though so then she
explains
before to the audience that before was a
bad copy of data failed version of data
oh oh that's the other thing from the
earlier part of this show I said there's
another thing that you will accurately
predict okay and I said they can't she
can't be data's daughter cuz data
exploded into and you said well someone
went out in all the debris and found all
on pieces of him yeah you do anything so
cuz cuz at the end they describe that
weird Borg cube that is being built mic
mic if you want to know what stupid
writers are going to do you ask a stupid
person I'll tell you exactly what
something stupid is gonna be written
I'll tell you exactly what that is rich
they they need you for that writers room
they just think that when they hit a
wall or they just look at you and you
just say the stupidest thing that you
could think of and then they go with it
so that weird Borg cube that is being
built by Romulans yes which I predict
will be a giant Borg cube to revenge on
the Federation at the end of this season
because of their reluctance to save the
Romulan people money I was thinking they
were gonna use the technology to
reignite their Star but no you're right
it's gonna be a giant super weapon that
will wreak havoc upon the Federation cuz
they want to get their revenge so
there's they're slowly building a Borg
cube because after after the riemann
ship exploded with Shinzon on it and
data they went because it says Romulan
reclamation facility or something like
that they went and they scooped up all
the all the debris from that battle and
they found bits of data literally data
himself and they found his little I
don't know what if they made up
something but data's molecules or some shit like that, right
Oh
positron they're gonna clone a data's
daughter and you can only make twins
from one of datas positrons
yeah positron it's just a like particle
in an atom okay it doesn't have like DNA
and it that you could clone an android
from yeah exists but it does now versus
writing this show they found data's
positrons I don't know how that relates
to a board cube they do show Borg's in
this and we know seven of nine appears I
think here's something stupid the Borg
are helping the Romulans build the Borg
cube because they want to get revenge on
Picard and earth two are the Borg trying
to make a race of super Androids sure
why so they can be even more Android II
yeah yeah and a Borg Android Romulan
hybrid that will fight Captain Picard at
the end of the show no no a race of them
oh okay to invade Earth oh they're gonna
have one like main one that controls all
of the smaller poor Romulan data Android
that's 10,000 Starfleet shuttlecrafts
have to beat your lasers oh no it has
the cunning you know of Romulan the
intelligence and cunning of a Romulan
the the strength of a Borg and the the
indestructibility of Android okay
so it has all these three components
they all want revenge on Starfleet and
Picard and they want oh oh no I know why
the board cube wants to blow up earth
that's Bork you've flown by Romulans
uh-huh wants to blow up earth because
earth didn't help them but also the Borg
want to get the card back Isla cutis to
lead the Borg into a new age so they
both have similar goals so they decide
to work together to build a giant Borg
cube man bye Romulan Borg droid wins
I love it
okay it's the dumbest idea we could
think of it's definitely gonna happen I
don't know why she was working on a
Romulan Borg cube being under
construction but I'm sure seven of nine
is gonna know all about it and she's
gonna go tell Picard don't go on this
mission Picard there ought to get you to
bring you back to be look you this again
because we remember
cutest as picard gonna fight look yudice
isla cute is gonna be the mastermind
behind this Oh Oh like like like like
like old Arnold fighting CGI yes yes
it's time it's a trap it's a trap to
lure Picard out from Earth because
remember he said no one can track me so
it's a trap to get him out to get his
DNA to make a clone look cutest a young
version and Obi a CGI look cuter so
clone it with the Android DNA yes super
cute and it'll be indestructible and
they'll have to find it at the end and
the big ending he'll say what what will
he say rich was as the camera dollies in
on him oh god I got nothing what is it
what does being actually the since is
futile oh yeah the obvious but some say
it was so obvious I missed him it'll be
Picard and his look ragtag group of
characters and they'll have like ninja
swords and and space guns and then look
you uh still have that the big
Beauregard it'll be a CI young younger
younger Patrick they can't use a
lightsaber because it's not the Star
Wars I people it'll be like a lightsaber
whip that look you just waving around
like a Ferengi laser right down laser
way Star Trek writers room do you think
they're watching this episode right now
we're like notepads legal pads like
writing down laser whip clone Lucas as
super weapon producers watch us
producers and writers looking for ideas
and they're too stupid to realize that
we're making fun of stupid ideas are we
responsible for Star Trek discovery we
ruined our own childhoods like it's a
self-fulfilling prophecy it's the first
ten minutes of a movie basically maybe
it's maybe a won't suck maybe
