Jul 4, 2020
UHF
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WcFlmIR02Uw
https://www.redlettermedia.com/review/ih5fw4f8a8w0tth7iz6dsxhun93lgs
"UHF" (archive.vn/MeX2M)

Well, Josh, we're back for another re:View.
And so why don't we talk about a nice, simple comedy from the 1980's.
Aw.
We're talking about UHF, starring Weird Al, Michael Richards...
Uh-oh.
...Victoria Jackson...
Oh, mm.
...and directed by Jay Levy.
Oh!
Who also has a cameo in the film as Gandhi.
Do you know much about Emo Philips
Yeah, he's still okay.
we're here
to talk about UHF yes what does that
mean that's the big question is do
people even know what that means anymore
I can't imagine I mean people are age
and older yeah you know it was Jeff was
didn't last much past us I don't think
no and it's unfortunate because I this
is one of my favorite childhood movies
absolutely it's one of those movies it's
kind of hard to look at objectively and
like separate my nostalgia for it but I
did rewatch it very recently okay and I
was surprised at how much of it holds up
and doesn't feel dated mhm but the
unfortunate part is that the entire
premise of the movie is dated because
it's about a UHF state broadcast
television what's that then onto uhf
ultra high frequency this goes from 300
megahertz to 3 gigahertz you'll find
most television stations in this area as
well as cell phone coverage and Wi-Fi
well it's it's it's a particular
wavelength
there was a VHF is a stands for a very
high frequency and that's the pant band
of radio waves essentially the TV had at
the time that's channels 2 through 13
how they divide up I'm not exactly sure
I'm sure you can look on Wikipedia or
something and find out if you're really
excited about it but uhf ultra high
frequency and so that was the next band
up and eventually you know people wanted
more channels than just 12 so they're
there got to be up to like I feel like
it was maybe for the 70s some some of
the some of the TVs would go that high a
crazy crazy amount of stations and the
more stations there war the weirder it
got
kind of it's kind of the thing now where
I look at like you know you've got your
channels that you get over broadcast if
you do get them over broadcast it's
digital and split into like maybe two or
three different channels and one of
those channels or it's just like we just
show westerns all day yeah because we
don't have to pay for them or we don't
to pay very much and it's kind of that
when when rerun culture wasn't as strong
and maybe it was still kind of owned by
the bigger channels you know it was a
big deal that like you know you'd run
through your series of you know you know
26 weeks and then it would start over
again so you could see it again that was
a big deal and that's you know they
don't do that anymore they just show
different shows or or just have another
season if you're like survivor or
something weird yeah we might as well
just keep doing it okay well now
everybody just streams every season on
whatever service hasn't pulled the show
yet that's true but a certain episode
they're coming for you golden girl how
Jesus
so the movie is the star vehicle for
Weird Al Yankovic yes we should probably
start with that talking about Weird Al
oh man
luckily people today still know about
Weird Al he's bigger than ever
that's nice pay attention yeah is like
he's the only artists and alcohol of an
artist
absolutely that I can think of that has
been around my entire life continued to
make new stuff my entire life and has
continued to stay quality with the stuff
he makes yeah for as long as I as long
as I've been around it's well has always
been there mm-hmm and it's because he's
so he's so good at tapping into pop
culture via particularly be a song but
he's able to do that so easily and so
well that it's just he's able to surf
along with the rest of the world and
just kind of be in his little spot
mm-hmm it seems like a generally good
guy absolutely I don't think anyone has
anything bad to say about Weird Al he's
now you have like younger generations of
like comedy people that still like to
work with him and he's like an elder
statesman of comedy at this point yeah
that's actually been super gratifying to
see like people like you know like Scott
Aukerman come up and be like you know
like you know have this have this
position of power of like you know
podcasts but also do and like the comedy
bang bang TV show and just like you have
Weird Al is your bandleader you know
fuckin yeah but so we're like showing up
on like Tim and Eric or stuff like that
it's very very modern stuff here's an
amazing clip from 1993
and Al's got his position in that world
I think probably just because people
lose people like us I just grew up a fan
and his fans and and just jumped at the
chance to have him involved yeah we're
we're now really appeals to that that
subsection of fandom that I call comedy
nerds yeah
the people that ruin comedy for
everybody else yeah I went to high
school with some people that endlessly
quoted Monty Python that's a point where
I avoided Monty Python like the plague
for years
yeah when we talked about doing this
like you initially we're saying like
maybe go back and revisit or you said
you just seen it was like I'm good it's
like it's it's it's all in my brain and
it's of a certain particular time that
like it's also nice that it's mainstream
and I think it's a little more if I make
references to it people get it a little
better than a lot of things from that
area yeah well especially now that's a
it's a movie that's kind of endured yeah
because it famously was a huge flop it
came out the same year like a huge year
for especially sequels but just big
movies in general it was like yeah
Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade
lethal weapon two or three
Batman was that year yeah just like a
ton of big movies and it just got buried
yeah it was gonna be Orion's big hope
for the year it tested I got tested
through the roof it's a huge deal and I
don't know how much longer I Ryan lasted
past that but it was not real long
no one reason I've been able to uh to
live in such splendor is because of my
part in uhf and I still get residuals
and in fact the gift that keeps on
giving
let's see let's just go ahead and talk
about what what UHF is it starts off
with the Indiana Jones pears right as
I'll would do with the songs it's got
everything right mm-hmm it's definitely
you can tell that they study that they
looked at it and reproduce it as best
they could
and with you know just with jokes right
well that's the funny thing is in
because I like I said I rewatched it
recently and I was curious to see how
many of the the jokes felt kind of dated
or references to things that people
might not even remember anymore and a
lot of it holds up because like Indiana
Jones obviously was contemporary at time
the third one was coming out the same
summer as this but Raiders of the Lost
Ark has gone on to be a classic so it
still holds up because everybody knows
Indiana Jones still exactly everybody
knows like imagery and iconography from
the Rambo movies so all those little
things that he sprinkles in there's only
a few jokes throughout that just feel
completely dated real specific but yeah
some real specific ones they don't they
don't bring the movie down I always come
back when I think about bad parity
there's a pardon I think I've mentioned
this on a past episode but there's a
part in scary movie - were they parody I
think it's a Nike commercial that was on
at the time and it's just people
dribbling a basketball and it's in the
movie and you watch that now and no one
hasn't it what the fuck this is
something that was popular for four
months when the movie came out like you
instantly dated a turtle and yeah and it
goes along with I know one of his sort
of rules that he goes by and doing
parody songs it's like the song has to
be funny on its own right like you don't
necessarily have to know what it's
parroting for it to be funny yes cuz
most of his songs the parody songs
aren't really related to there's like
smells like Nirvana which is about how
you can't understand what Kurt Cobain
singing right most of them are their own
separate thing and the lyrics are funny
and clever in their own right and so
that's a lot of this movie - yes like
you might not get the reference but the
joke is usually still pretty funny
starts up with George Newman played by
Weird Al Yankovic he and is he and his
best friend are clearly at the end of
their tethers after working a ton of
dead-end jobs and it's really got a lot
of a lot of plot for a movie like this
and a lot of characters that you really
you really care about because you want
you know you start off with George and
Bob and they're they're nice guys and
they're just trying to get ahead they're
just trying to live their life and and
have Twinkie wiener sandwiches and try
to cheer each other up
George is uncle Harvey rich uncle Harvey
he's a gambler
and he wins a TV station worthless UHF
station that just plays reruns of yeah
mr. ed or whatever right and and so
George's an actually convinces convinces
Harvey oh give it to George he's a smart
kid and he needs something to do and
he's very he's very imaginative and from
then on it's the wheels are off he turns
the station around he makes a bunch of
new programs and then the slimy local
network affiliate tries to take him down
who that Kevin McCarthy and then they
have to band together to save the
station it's yeah it's a very like
simple very kind of generic plot and
I've heard out weird I'll talk about how
he kind of wishes if you went back and
did it again he would make the plot less
generic but to me that works perfectly
absolutely movie is because there's so
many you know one-off gags and non
sequiturs and stuff that it really helps
to have that kind of familiar framework
and to hold everything together on yeah
it makes it easy makes it easy to care
about the characters because you get
that kind of this you know the sort of
generic stereotypes are filling in and
they're not super generic but you know
it's list you know there's there's
there's a woman at the station who wants
to do more really sucks
and this is my friend Bob hi nice to
meet you and you know played by Fran
Drescher who's fantastic
priya pre sitcom Fran Drescher repress
sitcom Michael Richards and that's he
like Michael Richards personal blowout
aside like I mean I I know you don't
like Seinfeld yeah Seinfeld is my
favorite sitcom it's I'm not a big fan
of Seinfeld but either way he's so good
in this movie yeah but you sorry about
that like oh he's down on his luck he's
the janitor he gets fired by Kevin
McCarthy they take his mop but that's
the quirk that makes it funny and also
surprisingly endearing means that it's
not that he's fired from his job but
yeah he has his mop that he loves it
because I've been to him when he was
eight years old
cuz all he ever wanted to be was a
janitor yeah so really he's fulfilling
his dreams but then they take his me
take his mom away and it's so like it's
goofy because it's a mop but it's still
like his delivery and the way it's
executed it's kind of sweet yeah I kind
of I've definitely seen things like like
outtakes from from Seinfeld where
everybody else kind of crack it up and
Michael Richards just like yeah he's
very serious about his accident
professional yeah pree Seinfeld it was
like did you ever see a transylvania
6-5000 around he's hilarious on that
like all these early weird things that
he did the first half is really funny
and then it just kind of fizzles out but
but yeah Michael Richards steals the
show in that movie is this weird little
baby that he makes talk through a door
and for a movie that's mostly just like
gag after gag after gag it finds a way
to make you care about what's happening
and by god he even care about the the
you know the sleazy news owner of the
big network station Kevin McCarthy you
start his kid works there everybody else
there seems to work at that place seems
seems fairly affable enough I  I mean
there's the guy
with the hat and the mustache and take
that ridiculous thing off but yeah and
that's that helps to like the villain of
the movie Kevin McCarthy is so slimy
oh yeah it's ridiculous without him even
heaven to like try to be funny I mean
isn't it illegal to own two television
stations in the same town really gee I
guess I'll have to turn this place into
a parking lot yeah it's so funny oh man
he must he get the feeling he must have
loved doing that like yeah you'd love
being a character actor and get a role
like that so it's it's in that in that
way it's cartoony but again it just it
lets you concentrate more on the jokes
because you don't have to think too hard
about people's motivations well that's
all very familiar yeah like a very
simple plot we've seen it before mm-hmm
but that I think that that comfort of a
normal story really works in this favor
yeah you got your good people over here
you got your bad guy over here you got
an alien which is was Anthony Geary who
was from General Hospital yeah which I
never watched General Hospital 8 but I
know the big arc on that was the Luke
and Laura story yeah he was Luke yep he
was a rapist that somehow became her
true love
oh is that what happens soap operas oh
my god
yeah and he was not apparently the first
choice for this role I guess they were
looking for a they were looking at a
young fella by the name of mr. Joel
Hodgson well that's not me to point out
like mentioning Joel Hodgson is like for
his kind of mainstream and well known as
Weird Al is he seems to have a taste and
kind of more niche like obscure like
comedy people and so a lot of them show
up in this movie that's how you end up
with like emo Philips there's only a few
simple principles you must bear in mind
before attempting to operate a
sophisticated piece of machinery like
this table saw
mm-hmm and this was my introduction to a
lot of that stuff yeah and I was super
lucky when I was young because we had
HBO and they would have like didn't
half-hour comedy specials so I was
really in you know as like excited about
that just like oh man emo Philips did it
too but yeah so I was super excited to
see like yeah some of the some of the
comedy names pop up and you know
Victoria Jackson at the time was you
know famous from SNL she does she does a
nice job just kind of be in the love
interests she's yeah I mean she has the
least comedic material to work with she
has to play the straight person yeah she
does a fine job she does a fine job I
guess somebody has to play that role the
kippur kids show off the kids I don't
know the history the kippur kids but I
know they're in the movie Forbidden Zone
and yeah that's the other thing is that
seeing seeing a movie that they made you
know 15 years before that and apparently
that was still their stick
I didn't know what they were at the time
I don't know what they are exactly don't
know I just know one of them is married
to Bette Midler yeah that's something I
found out relatively recently I was like
well that's a fact that's in my brain
now Wow
but that's to go back to the deleted
scenes most of their performance is cut
out of the movie but okay it's still you
just see that little
as a kid I was like what the fuck is
this I need to learn more yeah
they hated when you do this look but
that's the thing is like with such a
standard plot you can have you can take
just like five minutes to go on a detour
where yeah we have this weird animal
show making Turtles stick to the ceiling
even and I like I like the range of that
to where like it's everything from like
movie trailer parodies like the Gandhi
like the Gandhi trailer you know the
movie trailer or the cone and a
librarian of course down to something
you know like TV commercials like
special the city like everybody knows
the the template for you know you know
commercials like that you've seen that
your whole life and what better way to
say I love you than with a gift of a
spatula so much of it is so generalized
where even if there's some sort of
specific target he was going after it
still works
I don't know it yeah a couple things
like he does a bit that's kind of a
parody of Geraldo at the time that Sally
Jessy Raphael those types of shows which
it's a little dated but it's still funny
he blew the lid off Satanism yeah I mean
there's a specific thing in it where
like they throw a chair at him which
actually happened to her Aldo
and then they cut back to him with the
head all bandaged it's a good sight gag
yeah
and the the the great kind of feeling of
how how shows develop even though like
the shows that they have like yeah it's
just it's local talent we found and we
just shot it in you know we shot roles
world well Kingdom in his apartment in
the India there's no production there
but you know money wise there which is
like yeah let's just see what this guy
does or yeah or how stanley spadowski
his clubhouse evolves out of uncle
George's Clubhouse or whatever it's
called initially and Alan got uncle
Nazis club Nazi scum palace how would
you like to do it every day yeah yeah
that would be me wait a minute
do I still get to be the janitor Stanley
just falls into this show like like like
a like a duck to water
mm-hmm he just wants to talk to America
talk to all the kids about being a
janitor and having dreams and it ends up
being the huge success but I
specifically remember I was trying to
tell my first band my drummer I was
trying to tell him about about the about
a UHF because he'd never seen it and it
was gonna be on like Comedy Central or
something and this was wonder still in
college so we had to do it we were in
the dorms we had you know you can call
each other's dorm rooms and where I'm
sitting there watching it and the
firehose scene happens
the phone rings that pick it up and
before I can even say hello I just hear
him laughing and then they just hang up
because it's not that's something that
could come off malicious in the wrong
hands and it doesn't at all know there's
such an innocence and the kind of a
good-natured tone to the whole movie
yeah which is why when you have like
slimy Kevin McCarthy like the worst
things he says in the movie or like
something that a child would say yeah
this community means about as much to me
as a festering bowl of ghosts not he's
he's he's Homer Fudd he's yeah Yosemite
Sam same with the violence in the movie
which has been a running thing in all of
Weird Al stuff he loves comical looking
violence oh yeah that's the stuff that
stuck out to me as a kid like the Coney
and the librarian sketch I'm sorry books
were a little overdue the emo Philips
scene which I think he had the fight to
keep in the movie really yeah like they
were concerned that he like he could
probably get a PG if that was cut out
but he left it in so I got a pg-13 okay
but that's I mean that's like you know
it's like Monty Python stuff was just
total discord a totally an emo Philips
scene obviously and if you ever watched
the deleted scene of the movie there's
some extended versions of that scene and
it stuck out to me because in the movie
he just he cuts his thumb off and then I
think the scene kind of ends but in the
deleted scenes you see him like picking
it up and he puts it in his pocket and I
always try to tell my students to keep
these in their mouths until they can get
them resewn at the hospital no there's
another take where he puts it in his
mouth and that resonated with me because
when I was in elementary school our gym
doubled as our cafeteria and so for
lunch time they would have these big
collapsible tables even fold-out and I
always heard a story about one day when
they were folding those up someone got
their finger stuck in it and their
finger snapped off and my third grade
teacher put the finger in her mouth to
get to the hospital that's it that's
apparently a real thing you're supposed
to do if someone's finger gets severed I
don't know if it's to keep it moist or
what keep it warm
keeping it warm I don't know I'm warm
for you but that's a real thing and I
always remembered that story from when
as a little kid so then years later when
the UHF DVD came out I was like someone
else did that but that's so we can talk
about that whole that whole thing the
whole third act where it's like we've
got to get the community together to
save our station
yeah and it's such a great like let's
put on a show kind of thing and just all
sorts of you know there's all the most
ridiculous acts it's kind of reminds me
of the end of true stories again where
it's like over all the local acts show
up and it's it's the cowboy that yodels
upside down and the kipper kids doing
whatever it is that they're doing and
just all sorts of stuff like that mm-hmm
weird for the 24-hour marathon didn't
talk about Cooney yeah I mentioned that
actor Getty Watanabe when I talked about
gremlins 2 and how he was always kind of
playing that role he always always the
Asian stereotype yeah even though he's
like a dude from Utah right Vienna in
he's in a movie vamp that we that you
showed to me oh that's right yeah like
the one movie where he gets to use his
actual accent yeah he was he was
definitely that go-to guy for like we
need we need an Asian person an Asian
male yeah to to be funny and have an
accent but he gives it his all I mean
him just yeah calling everybody stupid
but he gets the host a wonderful
wonderful show called we love fish and
you know he's still east still the the
karate instructors in the karate outfit
for no real reason because that's his
identity in the movie again we're not
we're not going too deep with any of
these characters that's true yeah he's
Cooney's Cooney and he just like you
want to give him a show cuz he's your
friend and you've got a TV you got a TV
station go for it yeah what do you want
to do you want to host a game show about
fish fantastic well the fact that all
the all the shows they create
at least early on I have that sort of
like DIY kind of charm to all Morrison I
get my next-door neighbor who's a karate
instructor and like it's training that
Silva turns out no one knows who he is
or where he came from
no I thought you hired him that's right
where did you find this guy me I thought
you hired him yeah and the idea that
they're able to start start licensing to
be movies to show like Gandhi - yeah I
guess that doesn't really fit cuz that's
an actual movie in this world they
suppose it's not yes exactly oh and
that's kind of why that Conan the
librarian was as well yeah trailers for
movies they're gonna show because well
that was very popular on UHF stations
like you know that's like like something
like Mystery Science Theater 3000 exists
because this UHF station has all these
movies dates licensed but they can just
do whatever they want with essentially
yeah so that's why that show exists is
they just had all these B movies that
like Katy ma owned or owned the license
to to show to
we can all we can talk about the music
because that's important for for Weird
Al it's true about half of half of the
soundtrack is in the movie in spots here
and there depending on where you look
obviously there's the title song there's
a very catchy song absolutely I tend to
like Weird Al's original songs more than
his parodies they're really good I love
have you ever heard Albuquerque
yes I have however that's like 20
minutes long yeah whatever yeah that's
wonderful yeah oh yeah his style farad's
I mean it's dare to be stupid is not is
not a specific parody it's it's a style
sounds like demos yeah more than Tebow
ever it's it yeah somehow yes oh there's
UHF briefly while uncle Harvey is in the
pool there's a let me be your hog which
I dearly love
that confused me as a kid because I had
this soundtrack on cassette tape and
they only did the little bit of let me
be your hog just for what needed to be
playing on his radio yeah and so on the
soundtrack it plays it and then it just
like you hear like a record skip and it
just ends and goes to the next song and
I was like it's my tape defective what
just happened I didn't get it but yeah
apparently that was because they were
going they wanted to license like some
dumb song or whatever and just like
couldn't afford these Alice's like I'll
just write it well when they first drive
to the station there's like this weird
do op song playing which yes it's not
Weird Al's band doing the song but it's
Weird Al doing the singing and that's
just like yeah yeah we need a little
piece of music here just makes ability
yeah yeah but the big the big
centerpiece is the money for nothing
video that whole sequence feels like
it's in there because it's like wow this
is what people expect from Weird Al kind
of does is the movie company I mean the
movie goes off in all these little non
sequiturs but that's like an entire
music video yeah they're gonna be stops
dead the block full stops for that yeah
anybody's still you know it's mentally
still these day dreaming mister in a
disc television related exact time TV
definitely yeah William Beverly
Hillbillies Beverly Hillbillies with his
keep oh oh that's right he's actually
watching Beverly Hill police when he
drifts off yeah oh yeah that music video
it seems like I don't know if this is
the case but like in the 80s there was a
lot of I think it was like pee-wee's big
adventure that started the idea of like
the the movie vehicle for a comedy
persona or a comedy character well cuz
he had like pee-wee's big adventure was
a big hit and then like Elvira gets her
own movie or like yes Ernest got his
movie and so this kind of falls in that
where it's like there's The Weird Al
vehicle to a point he's not a like
full-blown like comedy character like an
Ernest or something but but it's a
comedy persona
I mean it's Weird Al's yeah I definitely
feel like that movie would not have
existed without pee-wee's big adventure
yeah it had to have that success ahead
of it it is not quite the same tone it
has more of a Zucker Brothers tone but
yeah there's echoes of pee-wee's yeah
the kind of absurdity well but in being
based around a community character like
that like you say like that was really
the first of its kind and like you get
kind of like the Elvira stuff and stuff
you know the earnest stuff is like kind
of not it doesn't feel the same to me is
like peewee because it was it's it's so
specific you know like peewee had been
around for years before the movie
happened
well higher so what about me not but not
in that context like peewee had like you
know it was a performing thing it was a
full forms like character that's what I
like there were shows built around him
already whereas of IRA it's just like no
shadow no Vera I love her I thought it
was great that she was team she was just
a horror host yeah and so she had that
that's not really context for a movie
necessarily so I think more was
developed on like this weird al'
character that supposedly you know kind
of exists in people's heads yeah you
know and what do people associated with
Weird Al where though parodies and so we
put him in a TV station I mean do
parodies of movies and TV shows exotic
and in commercials it's it's about the
best vehicle you could come up with for
a Weird Al movie definitely yeah what is
he gonna do with them there's nothing
else you'd really wanted you're not
you're not gonna you're not gonna he's
not gonna be Leslie Nielsen yeah he's
not gonna he's not gonna do me something
like that although he did show up in all
the Naked Gun movies this is true Weird
Al Yankovic is on the plane as himself
in the first one and the second one I
don't think I realized it was him until
years later thinking this is like before
he always had the mustache back yeah
yeah yeah this is actually and this is
pretty good this is pretty close to
where his image started to change and
grew his hair out and that version of
weird out that era well that's the thing
about him too is like he'll have an
album come out and then he'll kind of go
away from the spotlight for a little bit
and then a new album will come out and
people are reminded of him oh yeah
that's that's why he's endured I think
because that's like I mean that everyone
always points out that he's lasted
longer than a lot of the acts he
parodies it's true it's cuz like he's
not like constantly you know in the
spotlight he just kind of comes and goes
yeah it's interesting like people get
people get just enough time to forget
about him to a point but not enough time
to just like who's that
yeah and which is amazing for someone
that makes parody songs that feels like
such a like small window you have one
big hit parody song and then you vanish
there's literally no one else no one
else has ever done what we're Dell is
done yeah had this sort of like
endurance yeah
and it's amazing and it's just you know
you you wonder about what the actual you
know reason for that is where there's
just this oppression and able to pick
out the right songs or the way that he
treats them because his band is amazing
yeah talented band he has perfect pitch
right mmm I mean he's a talented
musician and he's just making these yeah
dogs
so yeah you can it holds up nicely today
definitely the appearance of that kind
of humor well cuz it's obviously it's
very silly
it's very sucker brothers meets Monty
Python a little bit yeah it's just weird
al' I think that's the thing is it it
Weird Al has such a specific kind of
persona and a specific kind of
good-natured tone yeah this comedy and
this movie reflects that sucker brothers
I mean that not that they're too you
know offensive or anything but they have
some stuff that's a little bit what that
Weird Al wouldn't do no it's a little
little more maybe a tiny more edge to it
and Weird Al is I mean that's why I say
like I loved him as a little kid he
still holds up today yeah because he
can't appeal to just you know so many
different people so many different ages
yeah and then just yeah the the the it
made sense at the time because of like
things like he would go on MTV and there
would be little parodies that they would
do for that so it was like that almost
also feels like it was kind of building
up to the movie well yeah I always used
to love his specials he had one every
time an album came out great when he
would do his interviews yeah just took
other footage of a person being
interviewed and changed the questions
and yes we edited it you know we've had
a lot of great guests dropping by have
you ever met Celine Dion I felt like
killing her before well obviously we all
have yes later much you used to much
success on Space Ghost Coast to Coast
yeah let's do it
al was on okay that's the thing is I
feel like he connects to so many
different types of comedy and different
comedy people yeah absolutely they're
multiple generations now just by doing
what he does stick into it mm-hmm
yeah so so UHF it definitely has has
stuck with me over the years and has
been as entertaining as it ever was
it's a hard one to talk about where you
don't end up just kind of quoting the
movie because there's so many lines
but yeah even a little even little
throwaway jokes like um zombie oh yeah
we didn't mention that yeah talking
about all the random people that are in
this movie
John Paragon John Paragon is is is the
son of the owner of the network station
as he doesn't have a lot of comedy stuff
to work with but he's got his laugh that
he does throughout the movie that
annoying laugh which is great but he has
connections to speaking of peewee and
Elvira he worked with both of them and
there's you know they were all part of
the groundlings you know any groups mhm
and there's one is one comedic line is
probably one of the best ones in the
whole whole movie that's what a lot of
this movie is it got a lot of good
cliches to build on and a lot of really
interesting things you haven't seen
anywhere else it has just so many things
going on mmm every every minute there's
like a new little gag or a new sequence
or just all the you know the throwaway
jokes and the cutaway scenes that don't
really connect to the story but that's
what kind of keeps it fresh the whole
way through
right and yet but at the same time like
I say though it doesn't feel like it's
it's too frantic no it's definitely it
tastes just right that perfect balance
and even at the end even though it's
cliche once when they win the station
back and that music swells it like it it
genuinely makes you feel good yeah even
though it's so corny it works well
especially the way that the way that
they wind finally
Yeah, right at the last minute with the homeless guy.
I'll take whatever you got left.
How much is that?
Two-thousand dollars!
Double-die penny.
That's a line I always, it's not even, like, a terribly funny line.
It's just the way the guy delivers it.
But when I was a kid, he's like, I got this really neat watch.
Plus, I got me a real neat watch.
It's a Rolex.
That's, like, where do you find that guy?
Yeah.
Karma comes back in the end to bite Kevin McCarthy in the ass.
Yeah, yeah.
So everybody gets his comeuppance.
You know, it's like, what's that line about Melrose Place, everyone you like gets kissed, and everyone you don't like gets thrown in a pool.
That's the end of UHF.
There you go.
